Title:Safe-houses
Difficulty:Beginner
Order:4
---
<p>Safe-houses take a number of different forms. They can either be emergency safe-houses which are houses or apartments rented specifically for this purpose OR emergency safe havens which are in the already-occupied houses or apartments of friendly people.</p><p>Safe-houses and safe havens should be in a relatively anonymous community where neighbours won?t be suspicious about what is going on, or in a community where the neighbours can be relied on not to inform.</p><p>Safe-houses and safe havens should be in locations which allow observation of approaches to the property. There should be a number of emergency escape routes which are known to all those who may need to stay there. They should ideally have a secure parking place which would make it harder to place a tracker under the car at night. Safe-houses should be secure, with locks on windows, doors and gates and have a good quality alarm system and/or a dog. They should have a modicum of comfort ? with appropriate running water, heating and electricity.</p><p>Safe-houses that are usually empty should be regularly serviced. Houses should not be left empty for weeks/months on end, as this may look suspicious: post should be collected regularly; the grass should be cut. If the house is unoccupied, non-sensitive activity should occur in the house every few days to make it look occupied. Ideally all rent and bills should be paid using cash to avoid leaving a trace.</p><p>Safe-houses and safe havens might need the following:<ul><li>Sufficient supplies of fuel, food, batteries and water for each person to last for a minimum of ten days.</li><li>Emergency generator</li><li>Battery or wind up mechanical radio and ideally a TV </li><li>Clothing, especially outerwear appropriate for varying weather conditions</li><li>Advanced first aid kit with necessary medications as required</li><li>Flashlights with extra batteries </li><li>Maps and communication plans as appropriate (to plan for emergency evacuation)</li><li>Fully charged mobile phones and chargers, appropriate credit </li><li>Satellite phone and charger (if issued) </li><li>Sufficient amounts of extra cash</li><li>Items to reduce psychological stress upon anyone using the safe-house (e.g. books, magazines, board games, games consoles etc.) </li></ul></p><p>All sensitive waste produced at the house should be shredded/ securely burnt and disposed of. Residents should be aware of all possibly incriminating evidence that may be held there: electronic equipment; documents; travel tickets; receipts; or general waste which indicates the number, type or activities of the people using the house.</p><p>Emergency grab bags for each person should be located close to the most likely emergency escape routes. See the Protective Equipment lesson for details on what to pack in a grab bag.</p>