contents_en/communications/social-media/expert/how-to-respond-to-abuse.md, before:

[Title]: # (How to respond to abuse)
[Order]: # (3)

## IT'S NOT YOUR FAULT.
You may feel helpless, but you can take action. The following strategies have proven useful for other survivors.

## Keep records

*	Record incidents (time, place, event).

*	Take screenshots and save electronic copies of abusive messages. (The coding that accompanies all cyber communications is the only way to verify authenticity.) Back up evidence on a USB stick or external hard drive. 

*	Warn that any further contact will result in a police report. Write once and document it.

*	Unpublish abusive posts, but don't delete them. These are part of the evidence that you will want to provide to the police or the internet provider. If you are receiving harassing phone calls, record them for evidence.

## Cut off contact

*	Don't confront the person (online or otherwise); end all contact with them immediately.

*	Filters your email account(s) to block their email address.

*	Block them from your social networking accounts and change the privacy settings to try to keep them accessing from your list of friends.

* 	Change all of your passwords, especially if you think you were hacked.

*	Consider starting new email accounts. Let contacts know if your old accounts were hacked and they should not open any message from them.

*	Put a sticker over your webcam.

*	Do a search of your name online or set up alerts to notify you of anything new that involves your name.

*	Paying is unlikely to stop a blackmailer's demands.
 	
## Report it

**To companies**

Social media companies and internet service providers should prohibit people from using their service for abusive purposes. A company may intervene by directly contacting the stalker or closing the account. Document this contact.

**To the authorities:**

If more people report tech-related violence, law enforcement and legislators will be forced to take it seriously and develop or improve protocols and laws. 

We recommend doing this if you feel comfortable putting trust in the authorities. 

This will depend on your threat model.

(Learn more about threat models in [managing information.] (umbrella://lesson/managing-information))

If you go ahead, bring a trusted friend or family member for emotional support.

*Note: When the perpetrator and survivor are located in different countries, jurisdictional issues complicate the case. Fortunately, the number of successful transnational prosecutions is growing.*

**To your employer**

If the person may harass you in the workplace, it's important to notify your employer. For example, your boss will be more likely to back you up if they later receive communication from a stalker, and they may be able to mitigate professional damage and providing evidence.

## Remove content

If a blackmailer or anyone else distributes your private images without your consent, there are steps you can take.

*	Request that websites take down the information. Removal policies for popular sites are available [here] (https://oag.ca.gov/cyberexploitation)

*	Contact search engines to remove links to the information;

*	Rebuild a positive online reputation to "bury" the negative search results;

*	Report legal violations to search engines;

*	Make a legal case for defamation;

*	Some people choose to register personal images with their national copyright office, which strengthens their ownership claim and allows them to demand removal with legal backing.

## Community support

Sharing your experience may help you and others learn about and recover from online abuse. 

Report incidents to [Take Back the Tech](https://www.takebackthetech.net/mapit/), [HeartMob](https://iheartmob.org/), or look for projects in your region.  

Experiencing and responding to abuse can be isolating and stressful. A supportive community, online or off, can help.

(Learn more about [unhealthy stress](umbrella://lesson/stress/0)).

Commit message:

Add Pen America links to how-to-respond-to-abuse.md

contents_en/communications/social-media/expert/how-to-respond-to-abuse.md, after:

[Title]: # (How to respond to abuse)
[Order]: # (3)

# IT'S NOT YOUR FAULT
You may feel helpless, but you can take action. The following strategies have proven useful for other survivors.

## Keep records

*	Record incidents (time, place, event).

*	Take screenshots and save electronic copies of abusive messages. (The coding that accompanies all cyber communications is the only way to verify authenticity.) Back up evidence on a USB stick or external hard drive. 

*	Warn that any further contact will result in a police report. Write once and document it.

*	Unpublish abusive posts, but don't delete them. These are part of the evidence that you will want to provide to the police or the internet provider. If you are receiving harassing phone calls, record them for evidence.

## Cut off contact

*	Don't confront the person (online or otherwise); end all contact with them immediately.

*	Filters your email account(s) to block their email address.

*	Block them from your social networking accounts and change the privacy settings to try to keep them accessing from your list of friends.

* 	Change all of your passwords, especially if you think you were hacked.

*	Consider starting new email accounts. Let contacts know if your old accounts were hacked and they should not open any message from them.

*	Put a sticker over your webcam.

*	Do a search of your name online or set up alerts to notify you of anything new that involves your name.

*	Paying is unlikely to stop a blackmailer's demands.
 	
## Report it

**To companies**

Social media companies and internet service providers should prohibit people from using their service for abusive purposes. A company may intervene by directly contacting the stalker or closing the account. Document this contact.

**To the authorities:**

If more people report tech-related violence, law enforcement and legislators will be forced to take it seriously and develop or improve protocols and laws. 

We recommend doing this if you feel comfortable putting trust in the authorities. 

This will depend on your threat model.

(Learn more about threat models in [managing information.] (umbrella://lesson/managing-information))

If you go ahead, bring a trusted friend or family member for emotional support.

*Note: When the perpetrator and survivor are located in different countries, jurisdictional issues complicate the case. Fortunately, the number of successful transnational prosecutions is growing.*

**To your employer**

If the person may harass you in the workplace, it's important to notify your employer. For example, your boss will be more likely to back you up if they later receive communication from a stalker, and they may be able to mitigate professional damage and providing evidence.

## Remove content

If a blackmailer or anyone else distributes your private images without your consent, there are steps you can take.

*	Request that websites take down the information. Removal policies for popular sites are available [here] (https://oag.ca.gov/cyberexploitation)

*	Contact search engines to remove links to the information;

*	Rebuild a positive online reputation to "bury" the negative search results;

*	Report legal violations to search engines;

*	Make a legal case for defamation;

*	Some people choose to register personal images with their national copyright office, which strengthens their ownership claim and allows them to demand removal with legal backing.

## Community support

Sharing your experience may help you and others learn about and recover from online abuse. 

Report incidents to [Take Back the Tech](https://www.takebackthetech.net/mapit/), [HeartMob](https://iheartmob.org/), or look for projects in your region.  

Experiencing and responding to abuse can be isolating and stressful. A supportive community, online or off, can help.

(Learn more about [unhealthy stress](umbrella://lesson/stress/0)).

# Help others 

*Read: PEN America, [Best Practices for Allies and Witnesses] (https://onlineharassmentfieldmanual.pen.org/best-practices-for-allies-and-witnesses/)* and *[Best Practices for Employers of Writers and Journalists](https://onlineharassmentfieldmanual.pen.org/best-practices-for-employers-of-writers-and-journalists/)*
