contents_en/operations/evacuation/beginner/phase-one-planning.md, before:

[Title]: # (Planning)
[Order]: # (0.5)

### Security situations can deteriorate rapidly, often without warning. 

1.	Create an evacuation plan; 
2.	Share it with your team. 

_Coordinate with embassies, UN agencies, or NGOs as appropriate._

# Planning questions

## When?

Set triggers or indicators to initiate suspension, hibernation, relocation, and evacuation. 

## Who? 

Who is eligible for evacuation or relocation assistance?

Who leaves first? 

For example, in a large organisation: 

*   **Priority 1:** Family from overseas;
*   **Priority 2:** Team members in immediate personal danger;
*   **Priority 3:** Any team member who is not essential;
*   **Priority 4:** Everyone left. 

*Note: Many organisations only evacuate international staff unless local staff and their families face a direct threat.*

## Where?  

Identify:

*	A first choice destination;
*	An alternate destination.  

_Organise a safe house if needed._ 

Do you need a visa? What will you need when you arrive? 

(Learn more about this in [preparation](umbrella://lesson/preparation).) 

## How?

Plan your route: 

*	Choose an emergency meeting point;

How will you notify your team when to meet? 

*	Choose your route;

*	Choose how you will travel.  

(Learn about [vehicles](umbrella://lesson/vehicles).) 

_Ensure the route is open in emergency conditions._ 

## What?

Inventory information and equipment or assets. 
  
Identify what to: 

*	**Take:** Essential or sensitive documents and equipment. 

*	**Leave:** Non-essential, non-sensitive documents. 

Copy serial numbers if high-value equipment will remain. How will it be hidden or protected?

*	**Destroy:** Non-essential, sensitive documents or notes.

(Learn about [managing information](umbrella://lesson/managing-information) and [backing up](umbrella://lesson/backing-up).)

_If in doubt, destroy information that could put those evacuating at risk if seized by an adversary._

## Who is responsible?  

Who has final authority to decide to evacuate? What happens if others disagree?

Clearly define who will do, and take, what.

## What will be the impact on your work?

Will you be able to continue working remotely, or return later?  

Will local groups or contractors continue your work? 

What policies do you need in place for that to happen?

Commit message:

add if you will not return to phase-one-planning.md

contents_en/operations/evacuation/beginner/phase-one-planning.md, after:

[Title]: # (Planning)
[Order]: # (0.5)

### Security situations can deteriorate rapidly, often without warning. 

1.	Create an evacuation plan; 
2.	Share it with your team. 

_Coordinate with embassies, UN agencies, or NGOs as appropriate._

# Planning questions

## When?

Set triggers or indicators to initiate suspension, hibernation, relocation, and evacuation. 

## Who? 

Who is eligible for evacuation or relocation assistance?

Who leaves first? 

For example, in a large organisation: 

*   **Priority 1:** Family from overseas;
*   **Priority 2:** Team members in immediate personal danger;
*   **Priority 3:** Any team member who is not essential;
*   **Priority 4:** Everyone left. 

*Note: Many organisations only evacuate international staff unless local staff and their families face a direct threat.*

## Where?  

Identify:

*	A first choice destination;
*	An alternate destination.  

_Organise a safe house if needed._ 

Do you need a visa? What will you need when you arrive? 

(Learn more about this in [preparation](umbrella://lesson/preparation).) 

## How?

Plan your route: 

*	Choose an emergency meeting point;

How will you notify your team when to meet? 

*	Choose your route;

*	Choose how you will travel.  

(Learn about [vehicles](umbrella://lesson/vehicles).) 

_Ensure the route is open in emergency conditions._ 

## What?

Inventory information and equipment or assets. 
  
Identify what to: 

*	**Take:** Essential or sensitive documents and equipment. 

*	**Leave:** Non-essential, non-sensitive documents. 

Copy serial numbers if high-value equipment will remain. How will it be hidden or protected?

*	**Destroy:** Non-essential, sensitive documents or notes.

(Learn about [managing information](umbrella://lesson/managing-information) and [backing up](umbrella://lesson/backing-up).)

_If in doubt, destroy information that could put those evacuating at risk if seized by an adversary._

## Who is responsible?  

Who has final authority to decide to evacuate? What happens if others disagree?

Clearly define who will do, and take, what.

## What will be the impact on your work?

Will you be able to continue working remotely, or return later?  

Will local groups or contractors continue your work? What policies do you need in place for that to happen?

If you will not return, ensure humane and correct termination of staff or contracts and dispose of assets, as appropriate.
