contents_en/personal/protective-equipment/advanced/operating-in-warzones.md, before:

[Title]: # (Operating in Warzones)
[Order]: # (1)

Human rights defenders requiring body armor should choose a vest according to the expected threat. The U.S. National Institute of Justice has developed a six-tier rating system used by most manufacturers around the world. If you are covering armed conflict, you should choose a vest rated to stop high-velocity bullets fired by military rifles. Be aware, however, that no vest is completely bulletproof. One may still be severely injured or die from the trauma of blunt impact, even if the body armor does stop the projectile. Consider gender-specific designs and whether you require options such as side or groin protectors.

Helmets are also recommended for journalists or humanitarian workers in war zones. Recognise, however, that even a top- rated helmet mainly provides protection against shrapnel, and is likely to be penetrated by any direct hit from a bullet fired by an assault or sniper rifle.

Kevlar ballistic material can often suffer damage which cannot be seen by the naked eye. For example, if plates are dropped from a height. Damage can weaken the ability of the material to protect from ballistic threats. As such, you should ensure that any ballistic material is inspected by a trained professional before use.

Commit message:

break up text in operating-in-warzones.md

contents_en/personal/protective-equipment/advanced/operating-in-warzones.md, after:

[Title]: # (Combat zones)
[Order]: # (1)

### In combat zones, wear body armor rated to withstand shrapnel and high-powered bullets. 

## Body armor

Choose a vest according to the expected threat. 

The U.S. National Institute of Justice six-tier rating system is used by most manufacturers around the world. 

*	Choose a vest rated to stop high-velocity bullets fired by military rifles if you are covering armed conflict.

*	Consider gender-specific designs and whether you require options such as side or groin protectors.

_No vest is completely bulletproof. One may still be severely injured or die from the trauma of blunt impact, even if the body armor does stop the projectile._

## Helmets

Helmets are recommended in war zones, mainly to provide protection against shrapnel.

_Even a top-rated helmet is likely to be penetrated by any direct hit from a bullet fired by an assault or sniper rifle._

## Inspect body armor 

Damage can weaken material intended to protect from ballistic threats.

*	**Kevlar** is a strong, synthetic material used in body armor. It can degrade or suffer damage which cannot be seen by the naked eye. 

*	**Ceramic plates** used in body armor may break if dropped from a height. 

Ensure that any ballistic material is inspected by a trained professional before use.
