contents_en/information/passwords/expert/threats-of-physical-harm.md, before:

[Title]: # (Threats of Physical Harm)
[Order]: # (10)

# Threats of Physical Harm

Finally, understand that there is always one way that attackers can obtain your password: They can directly threaten you with physical harm or detention. If you fear this may be a possibility, such as if you are going to be travelling across hostile borders with sensitive information, consider ways in which you can hide the existence of the data or device you are password-protecting, rather than trust that you will never hand over the password. One possibility is to maintain at least one computer/email/keepass account that contains largely unimportant information, whose password you can reveal quickly.

If you have good reason to believe that someone may threaten you for your passwords, it's good to make sure your devices are configured so that it won't be obvious that the account you are revealing is not the "real" one. Is your real account shown in your computer's login screen, or automatically displayed when you open a browser? If so, you may need to reconfigure things to make your account less obvious.

In such circumstances, you should also treat your password manager as a sensitive file, and hide/protect it as we describe in the [Protecting Files lesson](umbrella://lesson/protecting-files).

Commit message:

Break up paragraphs in threats-of-physical-harm.md

contents_en/information/passwords/expert/threats-of-physical-harm.md, after:

[Title]: # (Threats of Physical Harm)
[Order]: # (10)

## Hide secret accounts

Attackers can obtain your password by threatening you with physical harm or detention. 

Decide if this is a possibility for you, for example, if you plan to cross a hostile border with sensitive information. (Learn more about assessing your own risk in the [managing information] (umbrella://lesson/managing-information) lesson.)

If so, consider how to hide the existence of the data or device you are protecting with a password.  

Do not trust that you will never hand over the password. 

## Maintain a decoy

If you maintain an account with unimportant information on a computer, email service, or KeePassXC, you can reveal the password without exposing sensitive information.

## Check your device

Your devices are often configured to display your primary account, for example, on your computer login screen, or a tab that loads automatically when you open a web browser.  

If you are hiding an account or using a decoy, reconfigure your device accordingly.

Learn more about hiding secret files in the [protecting files](umbrella://lesson/protecting-files) lesson.
