contents_en/operations/protests/advanced/preparing-your-phone.md, before:

[Title]: # (Prepare Your Phone)
[Order]: # (1)

# Harden your phone against searches 

If police seize your device, you may not get it back for a while (or at all).

## Protect your device

*   Use a password or security code. 

_This is a barrier to most, but not to expert analysts._

(Learn more about this in [mobile phones](umbrella://lesson/mobile-phones).)

*   Activate encryption if needed.  

(Learn [basic security for Android](umbrella://lesson/android) and [encrypt your iPhone] (umbrella://lesson/encrypt-your-iphone).)

## Emergency communication

*	**Write an emergency number on your body** 

Write an important contact number in permanent marker in case you lose your phone or are permitted to make a call in police custody.

*Choose a number that doesn't reveal a connection you want to conceal.*

*	**Write an emergency message**

Draft a message to a trusted ally. Send it if your device may be seized. 

*	**Schedule a check in**

Create a commnications schedule with someone who is not attending the protest and can provide support if you fail to check in due to an emergency or arrest.

_Remember: telecommunications networks may be overloaded or shut down in a crisis._

## Protect your information

*	**Move and back up data** 

If police seize your device, content may be deleted, whether intentionally or not.

(Learn about [protecting files] (umbrella://lesson/protecting-files) and [backing up](umbrella://lesson/backing-up).) 

*	**Log out of unnecessary apps and accounts.**

Assess the risks of using social media to organise or document protests. Your regular accounts may have credibility and an audience, but using them will reveal your involvement and expose your contacts and personal information if your device is seized.  

*	Consider using separate social media accounts and pseudonyms for different activities. 

(Learn more about this in [social media](umbrella://lesson/social-media/0).)

*	Create a temporary account before the protest. 

	*	Ask a respected member of your community to share posts with a wider audience.   
    *	Share the password with a trusted ally who will change it if you send them an emergency message. 
    
*	Prepare to give up an account.

If you may be forced to reveal your passwords, reveal an account with unimportant information in order to protect a sensitive one with the same service.     

(Learn more about this in [passwords expert](umbrella://lesson/passwords/2).)

## Use a burner

If you have sensitive information on your phone, or need to conceal your presence at protest, bring a throwaway or alternate phone that:

*	Contains no sensitive data or personal accounts;
*	You would not mind losing. 

(Learn more about this in [mobile phones](umbrella://lesson/mobile-phones).)

Commit message:

Link to Internet in preparing-your-phone.md

contents_en/operations/protests/advanced/preparing-your-phone.md, after:

[Title]: # (Prepare Your Phone)
[Order]: # (1)

# Harden your phone against searches 

If police seize your device, you may not get it back for a while (or at all).

## Protect your device

*   Use a password or security code. 

_This is a barrier to most, but not to expert analysts._

(Learn more about this in [mobile phones](umbrella://lesson/mobile-phones).)

*   Activate encryption if needed.  

(Learn [basic security for Android](umbrella://lesson/android) and [encrypt your iPhone] (umbrella://lesson/encrypt-your-iphone).)

## Emergency communication

*	**Write an emergency number on your body** 

Write an important contact number in permanent marker in case you lose your phone or are permitted to make a call in police custody.

*Choose a number that doesn't reveal a connection you want to conceal.*

*	**Write an emergency message**

Draft a message to a trusted ally. Send it if your device may be seized. 

*	**Schedule a check in**

Create a commnications schedule with someone who is not attending the protest and can provide support if you fail to check in due to an emergency or arrest.

_Remember: telecommunications networks and mobile apps may be overloaded or shut down in a crisis._

(Learn more about this in [Internet](umbrella://lesson/the-internet/0).)

## Protect your information

*	**Move and back up data** 

If police seize your device, content may be deleted, whether intentionally or not.

(Learn about [protecting files] (umbrella://lesson/protecting-files) and [backing up](umbrella://lesson/backing-up).) 

*	**Log out of unnecessary apps and accounts.**

Assess the risks of using social media to organise or document protests. Your regular accounts may have credibility and an audience, but using them will reveal your involvement and expose your contacts and personal information if your device is seized.  

*	Consider using separate social media accounts and pseudonyms for different activities. 

(Learn more about this in [social media](umbrella://lesson/social-media/0).)

*	Create a temporary account before the protest. 

	*	Ask a respected member of your community to share posts with a wider audience.   
    *	Share the password with a trusted ally who will change it if you send them an emergency message. 
    
*	Prepare to give up an account.

If you may be forced to reveal your passwords, reveal an account with unimportant information in order to protect a sensitive one with the same service.     

(Learn more about this in [passwords expert](umbrella://lesson/passwords/2).)

## Use a burner

If you have sensitive information on your phone, or need to conceal your presence at protest, bring a throwaway or alternate phone that:

*	Contains no sensitive data or personal accounts;
*	You would not mind losing. 

(Learn more about this in [mobile phones](umbrella://lesson/mobile-phones).)
