contents_en/tools/facebook/beginner/facebook.md, before:


[Title]: # ()
[Order]: # (0)

# HOW TO CHANGE YOUR FACEBOOK PRIVACY SETTINGS

## How to change your Facebook privacy settings

**Lesson to read:** [Social Media](umbrella://lesson/social-media)  
**Level:** Beginner—Advanced  
**Updated:** April 2018 (some images date from earlier versions)  
**Sources:** Security in a Box, [Social Networking] (https://securityinabox.org/en/guide/social-networking/web/); EFF, ["How To Change Your Facebook Settings To Opt Out of Platform API Sharing"] (https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/03/how-change-your-facebook-settings-opt-out-platform-api-sharing); Facebook's [Terms](https://www.facebook.com/legal/terms) and [Data Policy](https://www.facebook.com/about/privacy/).

## Quick Tips

If you want to review the data you share with apps and websites because of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, read Part 6 on Apps, below.

If you want to change who can see your past or future posts, read Part 2 on Privacy.  

If you want to encrypt notification emails you receive from Facebook, read Part 1 on Security. 

Facebook privacy settings change frequently. To stay on top of them, we recommend you read the news and check the site itself frequently, too. 

## 1. Security 

**Step 1.** From your **Facebook** Home page, **click** on the small arrow beside *Home* in the top right-hand corner and select *Settings*. 

![](/media/facebook-all-05.png)

*Figure 1: Options*

This will take you to the *Settings* menu.  

**Step 2.** Click on **Security and Login** in the menu on the left hand side. This will open the Security Settings page. 

![](/media/facebook-all-17.png)

*Figure 2: The Security and Login Settings page*

**Step 3.** *Where you're logged in*: This shows details of any **Facebook** session that you may have forgotten to log out of - for example in an internet café, or a friend's computer - and therefore is still active. The location is determined by the IP address. Log out of any forgotten sessions to prevent anyone else from accessing your account, especially from a device that is not yours or that you don't recognise. To do this, simply **click** *Log Out* under the three dots beside each active session.

**Step 4.** *Login:* You should **update** your password regularly, preferably at least once every three months. Remember, it is extremely important that you choose a strong password to protect your account and your information. (Learn more about [Passwords](umbrella://lesson/passwords).)

![](/media/facebook-all-08.png)

*Figure 3: Password options*

**Step 5.** *Use two-factor authentication*: In the *Setting up Extra Security* section, you can choose to have to enter a security code every time your account is accessed from a computer or device **Facebook** does not recognise. We recommend using a third party code generator app to receive this code. Example code generators include Google Authenticator and Duo. (If you already have a U2F security key, like a Yubikey, you also have the option to use this instead of a code. If you don't have one, ignore this part.) Enabling this option will make it more difficult for someone else to access your account unless they also have access to your mobile phone (or key). 

**Note**:  If you select to receive alerts via Text Message, you will link you mobile phone number with your **Facebook** account, making your activities on the site more easily identifiable. Text messages are generally insecure, and using them to secure your account leaves you vulnerable to hacking. 

**Step 6.** *Recovery Code:* This appears under *Use two-factor authentication.* Click on *Get codes* and store the codes securely. (Learn about [Protecting Files] (umbrella://lesson/protecting-files).) This is a really important step, since you will need these backup codes if you don't have access to your code generator—for example, if your phone is stolen and you need to secure your account.   

**Step 7.** *App Passwords*: Also under *Use two-factor authentication,* this option allows you to generate individual passwords if you use applications on **Facebook**. Unless you have a specific need to do so, however, we recommend avoiding Facebook applications.

**Step 8.** *Authorised Logins*: Still under *Use two-factor authentication,* here you can review the browsers most frequently used to access your **Facebook** account. 

**Step 9.** *Get alerts about unrecognised logins*: Here you can choose to be notified if an attempt is made to use your log in credentials on **Facebook** or **Messenger** from a device which you have not used before. Choose whether to receive by Email or Text Message.

**Note**: If you select to receive alerts via Text Message, this means you will link your mobile phone number to your **Facebook** account, making your activities on the site more easily identifiable.

**Step 10.** *Choose 3 to 5 friends to help you if you get locked out*: This option allows you to select certain contacts from your **Facebook** friends who can help you to log in to your account if for some reason you are otherwise unable to. This is done through sharing a secret code with your contact. If you decide to use this option, be sure to choose your trusted contacts carefully and establish a secure means of communication for sharing the code. (Learn more about [Sending a message] (umbrella://lesson/sending-a-message) securely.) 

**Step 11.** *Encrypted notification emails.* This *Advanced* setting allows you to upload your public PGP key and add end-to-end encryption to notification emails you receive from Facebook. (Learn more about PGP in the [Email] (umbrella://lesson/email/2) lesson, and how to generate your own key using PGP for [LINUX] (umbrella://lesson/pgp-for-linux), [Mac OSX] (umbrella://lesson/pgp-for-mac-os-x), and [Windows] (umbrella://lesson/pgp-for-windows).) 

**Steo 12.** *See recent emails from Facebook*. Use this setting to determine whether emails you receive are actually from Facebook, or could be a phishing attack. (Learn more about [Phishing] (umbrella://lesson/phishing).)


## 2. Privacy 

 **Step 1.** To edit your **Facebook** *Privacy Settings*, **click** on the small arrow beside *Home* in the top right-hand corner and select *Settings*. 

![](/media/facebook-all-05.png)

*Figure 1: Options*

**Step 2.** This will take you to the *Settings* menu.  On the left-hand side, **choose** *Privacy*. 

![](/media/facebook-all-25.png)

*Figure 2: Privacy settings page*

**Activity**

**Step 3.** *Who can see your future posts?*: This creates a default rule for your future status updates. Here, you can **choose** between making them available to the entire public, your **Facebook** friends, yourself only, or a custom group which you can determine. Note that you can also change this for individual status updates, so that you can decide which ones are public, which ones are for friends or which ones are for a specific group. It's also worth noting, though, that everything you post is recorded by **Facebook** (including when you select *Only Me*) and can be handed over by them to third parties.

**Step 4.** The second option allows you to **review** the posts which other **Facebook** users have tagged you in. To see this, **click** on *Use Activity Log*.

![](/media/facebook-all-18.png)

*Figure 3: Who can see your future posts*

**Step 5.** The third option allows you to **restrict** access to previous status updates of yours which may have been public. **Note**, however, the limitation that individuals you tagged and their friends will still be able to see this content.

![](/media/facebook-all-19.png)

*Figure 4: Limit previous posts*

**How People Find and Contact You**

**Step 6**. In this section, you can decide who is able to send you a friend request. This is not particularly important in terms of information security, since in the end, it is still you who decides who to accept as a friend, and you should always exercise caution and avoid adding people who are unknown or untrusted. If you want to change this setting, **click** *Edit*.

**Step 7.** *Who can look you up using the email address/phone number you provided?* Here, you can limit the ease with which people can look you up by knowing your phone number or e-mail address (although this is still technically possible). **Click** *Edit* and ensure that only **Friends** can search for you by your e-mail address and phone number. 

Note: Don't forget to check who can view your phone number and email address directly on your profile. To do this, click on your profile to view your timeline. Click *About*, then *Contact and Basic Information* in the menu on the left. Under *Contact Information*, hover over any number or address you have shared. Change the settings by clicking *Edit*. We recommend limiting this information to *Only Me*.  

**Step 8.** *Do you want outside search engines to link to your profile?* Here you can limit people's ability to find your **Facebook** page via search engines. The default settings make it as easy as possible for individuals to find you this way, including possible adversaries. **Click** *Edit* and **uncheck** the box which says *Allow search engines outside of Facebook to link to your profile*.

![](/media/facebook-all-21.png)

*Figure 5: Who can look me up?*



## 3. Timeline and Tagging

As we've mentioned before, your information security on **Facebook** has a lot to do with the behaviour of your friends. In the *Timeline and Tagging* menu, you can determine what happens when friends tag you or your posts and what happens when they post on your timeline. 

**Step 1.** In the left-hand sidebar, **click** on the *Timeline and Tagging* menu.

![](/media/facebook-all-27.png)

*Figure 1: The Timeline and Tagging menu*

**Step 2.** *Timeline:* If you want your timeline to be truly *yours*, it's advisable to **disallow** posts on your timeline from anyone but yourself. To do this, click *Edit* and select *Only Me*.
 
**Step 3.** *Tagging:* *Who can see posts you're tagged in on your timeline:* Here, you can decide what happens when other friends tag you in their posts and photographs. If you **click** *Edit*, you can **change** these settings so that either everyone, friends of friends, a custom group of people, or only yourself can see posts you've been tagged in, or things others post on your timeline. 

**Step 4.** *When you're tagged in a post, who do you want to add to the audience of the post if they can't already see it?* This refers to people who can discover posts you are tagged in via search, News Feed, or something else on **Facebook**. We recommend you **limit** the audience to *Only Me*. **Click** *Edit* to **change** the setting.


**Step 5.** *Who sees tag suggestions when photos that look like you are uploaded?* **Facebook** uses a form of **facial recognition** technology which allows it to identify photographs that look like you among your friends' and contacts' photos and suggest that they *tag* you in the photos. For anyone at risk, this could be particularly sensitive and therefore it's strongly recommended that you **deactivate** this option if it is available to you.

**Step 6.** *Review:* It is advisable that you **click** *edit* and **enable** the *Review posts you're tagged in before the post appears on your timeline* and *Review tags people add to your posts before the tags appear on Facebook* options so that you are aware of irresponsible tagging and can limit its impact. Under *Review what other people see on your timeline,* **click** *View As* to see what certain individuals can see on your profile. 

**Note:** Posts you're tagged in (including your tag) will still be visible to the poster's friends, or perhaps even the public, depending on their settings, even if you disable them from appearing in your own timeline. Also keep in mind that **Facebook** can still record all of the information above and share it with third parties, including law enforcement.


## 4. Blocking Users and Apps

**Step 1.** In the menu on the left, **select** *Blocking*. Here, **Facebook** offers ample opportunities for blocking unwanted, intrusive, and sometimes potentially dangerous information.

![](/media/facebook-all-30.png)

*Figure 1: Select Blocking from the drop-down list*

**Step 2.** *Restricted List*. Here, you can add **Facebook** friends to a list which will limit them to only being able to view information you share publicly on your timeline (per the settings we explored above). To add friends to the list, **click** *Edit List*.

![](/media/facebook-all-31.png)

*Figure 2: Restricted List*

**Step 3.** *Block users*. Here you can block a user from accessing your **Facebook** page, any of your content, or adding you as a friend.

![](/media/facebook-all-32.png)

*Figure 3: Block Users*

**Step 4.** *Block messages*. This prevents someone from messaging or video calling you on Facebook or Facebook Messenger. 

**Step 5.** *Block app invites*. Often, we will have **Facebook** friends who are enthusiastic about a particular application, often a game, and they will continuously send us invites to join this game. Here, you can block application invites from such friends.

![](/media/facebook-all-33.png)

*Figure 4: Block App Invites*

**Step 6.** *Block event invites*. Similarly, here you can block invitations to events from certain **Facebook** friends.

![](/media/facebook-all-34.png)

*Figure 5: Block Event Invites*

**Step 7.** *Block apps*. As the name suggests, here you can prevent an application from accessing all but your public information. 

![](/media/facebook-all-35.png)

*Figure 6: Block Apps*

**Step 8** *Block Pages*. Here you can block a Page from contacting you or responding to you. 

## 5. Public Posts

**Facebook** gives you the option of allowing people to subscribe to your news feed, without being friends. Be aware however, that if you allow others to subscribe to your news feed, then some of your data is available for them and others in their network to see.  The safest option is not to allow people to subscribe to your news feed.

**Step 1.** Beside *Who can Follow Me* **select** *Friends*.

![](/media/facebook-all-36.png)

*Fig. 1: Follower settings*

## 6. Apps

Many **Facebook** users love and actively use *applications* — for example, games and ways to empower communications, such as social readers. But Facebook has allowed third parties to violate user privacy on an unprecedented scale. 

The Facebook Platform API allows you to use apps. By default, the option is enabled. It allows you, for example, to register for other websites using your **Facebook** account. This may be convenient, but it means your activity will be linked to your **Facebook** account, recorded and possibly shared. 

Each third party you grant permissions to is associated with your **Facebook** account, and can access the basic data of your **Facebook** account (such as your name, gender, and public pictures). It may also ask permission to access other information about you and your friends before you can use it. This could include a variety of data that may not be public. Thus, an app can gather and share information about your location, your opinion, and your behaviour. Some of this information will be sensitive. Therefore, for safety reasons, we recommend disabling **Facebook** apps unless you really can't avoid it. 


**Step 1.** **Click** on *Apps and Websites* in the menu on the left.  

![](/media/facebook-all-37.png)

*Figure 1: Apps and Websites*

**Step 2.** If using Apps isn't *really* important to you or your work, we recommended that you **click** the *Edit* button under *Apps, Websites and Games.* Click *Turn Off.*

![](/media/facebook-all-37.5.png)

*Figure 1: Turning off Apps and Websites*

**Step 3.** *Logged in with Facebook*. Whether you leave the option above enabled or not, pay attention to the list of your active apps and websites, and what information they can access. Do you really need them? By **clicking** on an app you can see what information it has access to. 

![](/media/facebook-all-38.png)

*Figure 2: Details of an app*

**Step 4.** To remove an app or website, check the box beside it in the list, and then **click** *Remove*. In the warning box that appears, check the box to delete activity on Facebook that the third party may have published on your behalf.  

![](/media/facebook-all-39.png)

*Figure 3: Remove an application*

Note: This action could have small consequences—for example, if you lose a comment that you posted in the past, or have to create a new account to login to a site that previously used your Facebook ID. But these consequences are minor compared to your privacy and security. Also note that removing an app's permissions means they cannot request more information about you, but does not require them to delete information they have already gathered.  


## 7. Ads

Advertising is fundamentally important to social networking companies, as it is their source of revenue. There will always be advertisements on social networking sites such as **Facebook**, though we can make them less personal, which is the right move in terms of information security and privacy.

**Step 1**. In the column on the left, **select** *Ads*, then *Ads settings*.

**Facebook** currently promises not to associate your name or picture with third-party advertisements, although they leave space for this to be possible in the future. It's a good idea to change these settings so that your details still remain private in case advertising rules change in the future:

**Step 2.** **Select** *Off* under *Ads based on my use of websites and apps.*.

**Step 3.** **Select** *Off* under *Ads on apps and websites off the Facebook companies*.

**Step 4.** **Select** *No-One* under *Ads with your social actions.* This encourages users to become ambassadors for products or pages they have 'liked', which means that you could be used to advertise a page or product to your friends. We recommended that you disable it. 

**Step 5.** *Your interests* and *Your information*. **Facebook** by default tries to display targeted advertising on your tastes and interests. Under *Your interests,* hover over any categories that you want to remove, then click the *X* in the right-hand corner. Under *Your information,* toggle the bar to *Off* beside profile details under *About you,* or hover over and click *X* under *Your categories.*

Commit message:

Add privacy checkup, privacy shortcut to facebook.md

contents_en/tools/facebook/beginner/facebook.md, after:


[Title]: # ()
[Order]: # (0)

# HOW TO CHANGE YOUR FACEBOOK PRIVACY SETTINGS

## How to change your Facebook privacy settings

**Lesson to read:** [Social Media](umbrella://lesson/social-media)  
**Level:** Beginner—Advanced  
**Updated:** April 2018 (some images date from earlier versions)  
**Sources:** Security in a Box, [Social Networking] (https://securityinabox.org/en/guide/social-networking/web/); EFF, ["How To Change Your Facebook Settings To Opt Out of Platform API Sharing"] (https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/03/how-change-your-facebook-settings-opt-out-platform-api-sharing); Facebook's [Terms](https://www.facebook.com/legal/terms) and [Data Policy](https://www.facebook.com/about/privacy/).

## Quick Tips

If you want to review the data you share with apps and websites because of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, read Part 6 on Apps, below.

If you want to change who can see your past or future posts, read Part 2 on Privacy.  

If you want to encrypt notification emails you receive from Facebook, read Part 1 on Security. 

From any page on Facebook, open the Help menu under the question mark icon and select *Privacy Checkup* or *Privacy Shortcuts* for quick answers about privacy and your account.  

Facebook privacy settings change frequently. To stay on top of them, we recommend you read the news and check the site itself frequently, too. 

## 1. Security 

**Step 1.** From your **Facebook** Home page, **click** on the small arrow beside *Home* in the top right-hand corner and select *Settings*. 

![](/media/facebook-all-05.png)

*Figure 1: Options*

This will take you to the *Settings* menu.  

**Step 2.** Click on **Security and Login** in the menu on the left hand side. This will open the Security Settings page. 

![](/media/facebook-all-17.png)

*Figure 2: The Security and Login Settings page*

**Step 3.** *Where you're logged in*: This shows details of any **Facebook** session that you may have forgotten to log out of - for example in an internet café, or a friend's computer - and therefore is still active. The location is determined by the IP address. Log out of any forgotten sessions to prevent anyone else from accessing your account, especially from a device that is not yours or that you don't recognise. To do this, simply **click** *Log Out* under the three dots beside each active session.

**Step 4.** *Login:* You should **update** your password regularly, preferably at least once every three months. Remember, it is extremely important that you choose a strong password to protect your account and your information. (Learn more about [Passwords](umbrella://lesson/passwords).)

![](/media/facebook-all-08.png)

*Figure 3: Password options*

**Step 5.** *Use two-factor authentication*: In the *Setting up Extra Security* section, you can choose to have to enter a security code every time your account is accessed from a computer or device **Facebook** does not recognise. We recommend using a third party code generator app to receive this code. Example code generators include Google Authenticator and Duo. (If you already have a U2F security key, like a Yubikey, you also have the option to use this instead of a code. If you don't have one, ignore this part.) Enabling this option will make it more difficult for someone else to access your account unless they also have access to your mobile phone (or key). 

**Note**:  If you select to receive alerts via Text Message, you will link you mobile phone number with your **Facebook** account, making your activities on the site more easily identifiable. Text messages are generally insecure, and using them to secure your account leaves you vulnerable to hacking. 

**Step 6.** *Recovery Code:* This appears under *Use two-factor authentication.* Click on *Get codes* and store the codes securely. (Learn about [Protecting Files] (umbrella://lesson/protecting-files).) This is a really important step, since you will need these backup codes if you don't have access to your code generator—for example, if your phone is stolen and you need to secure your account.   

**Step 7.** *App Passwords*: Also under *Use two-factor authentication,* this option allows you to generate individual passwords if you use applications on **Facebook**. Unless you have a specific need to do so, however, we recommend avoiding Facebook applications.

**Step 8.** *Authorised Logins*: Still under *Use two-factor authentication,* here you can review the browsers most frequently used to access your **Facebook** account. 

**Step 9.** *Get alerts about unrecognised logins*: Here you can choose to be notified if an attempt is made to use your log in credentials on **Facebook** or **Messenger** from a device which you have not used before. Choose whether to receive by Email or Text Message.

**Note**: If you select to receive alerts via Text Message, this means you will link your mobile phone number to your **Facebook** account, making your activities on the site more easily identifiable.

**Step 10.** *Choose 3 to 5 friends to help you if you get locked out*: This option allows you to select certain contacts from your **Facebook** friends who can help you to log in to your account if for some reason you are otherwise unable to. This is done through sharing a secret code with your contact. If you decide to use this option, be sure to choose your trusted contacts carefully and establish a secure means of communication for sharing the code. (Learn more about [Sending a message] (umbrella://lesson/sending-a-message) securely.) 

**Step 11.** *Encrypted notification emails.* This *Advanced* setting allows you to upload your public PGP key and add end-to-end encryption to notification emails you receive from Facebook. (Learn more about PGP in the [Email] (umbrella://lesson/email/2) lesson, and how to generate your own key using PGP for [LINUX] (umbrella://lesson/pgp-for-linux), [Mac OSX] (umbrella://lesson/pgp-for-mac-os-x), and [Windows] (umbrella://lesson/pgp-for-windows).) 

**Steo 12.** *See recent emails from Facebook*. Use this setting to determine whether emails you receive are actually from Facebook, or could be a phishing attack. (Learn more about [Phishing] (umbrella://lesson/phishing).)


## 2. Privacy 

 **Step 1.** To edit your **Facebook** *Privacy Settings*, **click** on the small arrow beside *Home* in the top right-hand corner and select *Settings*. 

![](/media/facebook-all-05.png)

*Figure 1: Options*

**Step 2.** This will take you to the *Settings* menu.  On the left-hand side, **choose** *Privacy*. 

![](/media/facebook-all-25.png)

*Figure 2: Privacy settings page*

**Activity**

**Step 3.** *Who can see your future posts?*: This creates a default rule for your future status updates. Here, you can **choose** between making them available to the entire public, your **Facebook** friends, yourself only, or a custom group which you can determine. Note that you can also change this for individual status updates, so that you can decide which ones are public, which ones are for friends or which ones are for a specific group. It's also worth noting, though, that everything you post is recorded by **Facebook** (including when you select *Only Me*) and can be handed over by them to third parties.

**Step 4.** The second option allows you to **review** the posts which other **Facebook** users have tagged you in. To see this, **click** on *Use Activity Log*.

![](/media/facebook-all-18.png)

*Figure 3: Who can see your future posts*

**Step 5.** The third option allows you to **restrict** access to previous status updates of yours which may have been public. **Note**, however, the limitation that individuals you tagged and their friends will still be able to see this content.

![](/media/facebook-all-19.png)

*Figure 4: Limit previous posts*

**How People Find and Contact You**

**Step 6**. In this section, you can decide who is able to send you a friend request. This is not particularly important in terms of information security, since in the end, it is still you who decides who to accept as a friend, and you should always exercise caution and avoid adding people who are unknown or untrusted. If you want to change this setting, **click** *Edit*.

**Step 7.** *Who can look you up using the email address/phone number you provided?* Here, you can limit the ease with which people can look you up by knowing your phone number or e-mail address (although this is still technically possible). **Click** *Edit* and ensure that only **Friends** can search for you by your e-mail address and phone number. 

Note: Don't forget to check who can view your phone number and email address directly on your profile. To do this, click on your profile to view your timeline. Click *About*, then *Contact and Basic Information* in the menu on the left. Under *Contact Information*, hover over any number or address you have shared. Change the settings by clicking *Edit*. We recommend limiting this information to *Only Me*.  

**Step 8.** *Do you want outside search engines to link to your profile?* Here you can limit people's ability to find your **Facebook** page via search engines. The default settings make it as easy as possible for individuals to find you this way, including possible adversaries. **Click** *Edit* and **uncheck** the box which says *Allow search engines outside of Facebook to link to your profile*.

![](/media/facebook-all-21.png)

*Figure 5: Who can look me up?*



## 3. Timeline and Tagging

As we've mentioned before, your information security on **Facebook** has a lot to do with the behaviour of your friends. In the *Timeline and Tagging* menu, you can determine what happens when friends tag you or your posts and what happens when they post on your timeline. 

**Step 1.** In the left-hand sidebar, **click** on the *Timeline and Tagging* menu.

![](/media/facebook-all-27.png)

*Figure 1: The Timeline and Tagging menu*

**Step 2.** *Timeline:* If you want your timeline to be truly *yours*, it's advisable to **disallow** posts on your timeline from anyone but yourself. To do this, click *Edit* and select *Only Me*.
 
**Step 3.** *Tagging:* *Who can see posts you're tagged in on your timeline:* Here, you can decide what happens when other friends tag you in their posts and photographs. If you **click** *Edit*, you can **change** these settings so that either everyone, friends of friends, a custom group of people, or only yourself can see posts you've been tagged in, or things others post on your timeline. 

**Step 4.** *When you're tagged in a post, who do you want to add to the audience of the post if they can't already see it?* This refers to people who can discover posts you are tagged in via search, News Feed, or something else on **Facebook**. We recommend you **limit** the audience to *Only Me*. **Click** *Edit* to **change** the setting.


**Step 5.** *Who sees tag suggestions when photos that look like you are uploaded?* **Facebook** uses a form of **facial recognition** technology which allows it to identify photographs that look like you among your friends' and contacts' photos and suggest that they *tag* you in the photos. For anyone at risk, this could be particularly sensitive and therefore it's strongly recommended that you **deactivate** this option if it is available to you.

**Step 6.** *Review:* It is advisable that you **click** *edit* and **enable** the *Review posts you're tagged in before the post appears on your timeline* and *Review tags people add to your posts before the tags appear on Facebook* options so that you are aware of irresponsible tagging and can limit its impact. Under *Review what other people see on your timeline,* **click** *View As* to see what certain individuals can see on your profile. 

**Note:** Posts you're tagged in (including your tag) will still be visible to the poster's friends, or perhaps even the public, depending on their settings, even if you disable them from appearing in your own timeline. Also keep in mind that **Facebook** can still record all of the information above and share it with third parties, including law enforcement.


## 4. Blocking Users and Apps

**Step 1.** In the menu on the left, **select** *Blocking*. Here, **Facebook** offers ample opportunities for blocking unwanted, intrusive, and sometimes potentially dangerous information.

![](/media/facebook-all-30.png)

*Figure 1: Select Blocking from the drop-down list*

**Step 2.** *Restricted List*. Here, you can add **Facebook** friends to a list which will limit them to only being able to view information you share publicly on your timeline (per the settings we explored above). To add friends to the list, **click** *Edit List*.

![](/media/facebook-all-31.png)

*Figure 2: Restricted List*

**Step 3.** *Block users*. Here you can block a user from accessing your **Facebook** page, any of your content, or adding you as a friend.

![](/media/facebook-all-32.png)

*Figure 3: Block Users*

**Step 4.** *Block messages*. This prevents someone from messaging or video calling you on Facebook or Facebook Messenger. 

**Step 5.** *Block app invites*. Often, we will have **Facebook** friends who are enthusiastic about a particular application, often a game, and they will continuously send us invites to join this game. Here, you can block application invites from such friends.

![](/media/facebook-all-33.png)

*Figure 4: Block App Invites*

**Step 6.** *Block event invites*. Similarly, here you can block invitations to events from certain **Facebook** friends.

![](/media/facebook-all-34.png)

*Figure 5: Block Event Invites*

**Step 7.** *Block apps*. As the name suggests, here you can prevent an application from accessing all but your public information. 

![](/media/facebook-all-35.png)

*Figure 6: Block Apps*

**Step 8** *Block Pages*. Here you can block a Page from contacting you or responding to you. 

## 5. Public Posts

**Facebook** gives you the option of allowing people to subscribe to your news feed, without being friends. Be aware however, that if you allow others to subscribe to your news feed, then some of your data is available for them and others in their network to see.  The safest option is not to allow people to subscribe to your news feed.

**Step 1.** Beside *Who can Follow Me* **select** *Friends*.

![](/media/facebook-all-36.png)

*Fig. 1: Follower settings*

## 6. Apps

Many **Facebook** users love and actively use *applications* — for example, games and ways to empower communications, such as social readers. But Facebook has allowed third parties to violate user privacy on an unprecedented scale. 

The Facebook Platform API allows you to use apps. By default, the option is enabled. It allows you, for example, to register for other websites using your **Facebook** account. This may be convenient, but it means your activity will be linked to your **Facebook** account, recorded and possibly shared. 

Each third party you grant permissions to is associated with your **Facebook** account, and can access the basic data of your **Facebook** account (such as your name, gender, and public pictures). It may also ask permission to access other information about you and your friends before you can use it. This could include a variety of data that may not be public. Thus, an app can gather and share information about your location, your opinion, and your behaviour. Some of this information will be sensitive. Therefore, for safety reasons, we recommend disabling **Facebook** apps unless you really can't avoid it. 


**Step 1.** **Click** on *Apps and Websites* in the menu on the left.  

![](/media/facebook-all-37.png)

*Figure 1: Apps and Websites*

**Step 2.** If using Apps isn't *really* important to you or your work, we recommended that you **click** the *Edit* button under *Apps, Websites and Games.* Click *Turn Off.*

![](/media/facebook-all-37.5.png)

*Figure 1: Turning off Apps and Websites*

**Step 3.** *Logged in with Facebook*. Whether you leave the option above enabled or not, pay attention to the list of your active apps and websites, and what information they can access. Do you really need them? By **clicking** on an app you can see what information it has access to. 

![](/media/facebook-all-38.png)

*Figure 2: Details of an app*

**Step 4.** To remove an app or website, check the box beside it in the list, and then **click** *Remove*. In the warning box that appears, check the box to delete activity on Facebook that the third party may have published on your behalf.  

![](/media/facebook-all-39.png)

*Figure 3: Remove an application*

Note: This action could have small consequences—for example, if you lose a comment that you posted in the past, or have to create a new account to login to a site that previously used your Facebook ID. But these consequences are minor compared to your privacy and security. Also note that removing an app's permissions means they cannot request more information about you, but does not require them to delete information they have already gathered.  


## 7. Ads

Advertising is fundamentally important to social networking companies, as it is their source of revenue. There will always be advertisements on social networking sites such as **Facebook**, though we can make them less personal, which is the right move in terms of information security and privacy.

**Step 1**. In the column on the left, **select** *Ads*, then *Ads settings*.

**Facebook** currently promises not to associate your name or picture with third-party advertisements, although they leave space for this to be possible in the future. It's a good idea to change these settings so that your details still remain private in case advertising rules change in the future:

**Step 2.** **Select** *Off* under *Ads based on my use of websites and apps.*.

**Step 3.** **Select** *Off* under *Ads on apps and websites off the Facebook companies*.

**Step 4.** **Select** *No-One* under *Ads with your social actions.* This encourages users to become ambassadors for products or pages they have 'liked', which means that you could be used to advertise a page or product to your friends. We recommended that you disable it. 

**Step 5.** *Your interests* and *Your information*. **Facebook** by default tries to display targeted advertising on your tastes and interests. Under *Your interests,* hover over any categories that you want to remove, then click the *X* in the right-hand corner. Under *Your information,* toggle the bar to *Off* beside profile details under *About you,* or hover over and click *X* under *Your categories.*
