contents_en/communications/sending-a-message/beginner/sending-secure-online-messages-on-your-phone.md, before:

[Title]: # (Sending secure online messages on your phone)
[Order]: # (2)

# Sending secure online messages on your phone

## Signal

[Signal](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.securesms) is a free, simple open-source tool for sending end-to-end encrypted messages and also for having secure calls.  It works for both Androids and iPhones and replaces the previous android app called TextSecure. (Users with TextSecure or the old Signal will have already received the update, or can do it manually be visiting the Playstore/Appstore and pressing Update)

Signal now also incorporates secure voice calling app, Redphone - meaning there is one simple app you can use for both secure calling and messaging, whether on Android or iPhone, as long as the person you are communicating with has Signal too.

Signal uses your existing phone number and address book. There are no separate logins, usernames, passwords, or PINs to manage or lose. It uses your mobile number as your identificator (like a user name) - this makes it easier for the user, though it also makes it easier to analyze the traffic it produces and trace it back to you. Signal uses a central server, which is a point of centralization and thus puts it in the powerful position of having control over some of this data. However they cannot hear your conversations or see your messages, so no one else can either.

## Telegram

A note on Telegram: While Telegram does use end-to-end encryption in some modes, there have been serious concerns with the quality of their encryption and the amount of information it gathers on users, including their full contact lists. Users must also remember to start a new "Secret Chat", before encryption is activated. Given these concerns we cannot recommend Telegram as a secure method of communicating.

## ChatSecure

[ChatSecure](https://chatsecure.org/) as a secure text chat application that works for both iPhones and Androids and across a number of platforms. Not only does ChatSecure encrypt your phone to phone messages, it can also operate across a number of platforms, and offers more functions than Signal. ChatSecure offers easy and strong encryption for your chats that provides both authenticity (you can verify that you are chatting with the right person) and the independent security of each session so that even if the encryption of one chat session is compromised, other past and future sessions will remain secure.

See how to set it up in the [ChatSecure tool guide](umbrella://lesson/chatsecure).

Commit message:

Link to Signal tool guide

contents_en/communications/sending-a-message/beginner/sending-secure-online-messages-on-your-phone.md, after:

[Title]: # (Sending secure online messages on your phone)
[Order]: # (2)

# Sending secure online messages on your phone

## Signal

[Signal](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.securesms) is a free, simple open-source tool for sending end-to-end encrypted messages and also for having secure calls.  It works for both Androids and iPhones and replaces the previous android app called TextSecure. (Users with TextSecure or the old Signal will have already received the update, or can do it manually be visiting the Playstore/Appstore and pressing Update)

Signal now also incorporates secure voice calling app, Redphone - meaning there is one simple app you can use for both secure calling and messaging, whether on Android or iPhone, as long as the person you are communicating with has Signal too.

Signal uses your existing phone number and address book. There are no separate logins, usernames, passwords, or PINs to manage or lose. It uses your mobile number as your identificator (like a user name) - this makes it easier for the user, though it also makes it easier to analyze the traffic it produces and trace it back to you. Signal uses a central server, which is a point of centralization and thus puts it in the powerful position of having control over some of this data. However they cannot hear your conversations or see your messages, so no one else can either.  

Learn more about Signal at the project's [website] (https://signal.org) or view the [Signal tool guide] (umbrella://lesson/signal).

## Telegram

A note on Telegram: While Telegram does use end-to-end encryption in some modes, there have been serious concerns with the quality of their encryption and the amount of information it gathers on users, including their full contact lists. Users must also remember to start a new "Secret Chat", before encryption is activated. Given these concerns we cannot recommend Telegram as a secure method of communicating.

## ChatSecure

[ChatSecure](https://chatsecure.org/) as a secure text chat application that works for both iPhones and Androids and across a number of platforms. Not only does ChatSecure encrypt your phone to phone messages, it can also operate across a number of platforms, and offers more functions than Signal. ChatSecure offers easy and strong encryption for your chats that provides both authenticity (you can verify that you are chatting with the right person) and the independent security of each session so that even if the encryption of one chat session is compromised, other past and future sessions will remain secure.

See how to set it up in the [ChatSecure tool guide](umbrella://lesson/chatsecure).
