contents_en/communications/mobile-phones/location.md, before:

[Title]: # (Location)
[Difficulty]: # (Beginner)
[Order]: # (3)

## 3. Phones give out information about their location

The greatest privacy threat from mobile phones is the way that they announce your location all day and all night through the signals they broadcast. Every mobile phone automatically and regularly informs the phone service provider where it is at that moment. Only if a phone is switched off or without signal will it be prevented to send out such signals.
![image](mobile4.png)

If you have a smartphone your location can also be tracked from apps, WI-FI or Bluetooth. Many apps use your GPS location to help them provide services, or just to collect data for their own use. You should only turn on your location when you need it and make sure that you only give location permissions to apps that you trust and that have a good reason to know where you are.

In each case, location tracking is not only about finding where someone is right now. It can also be about answering questions about people's historical activities and also about their beliefs, participation in events, and personal relationships. For example, location tracking could be used to try to find out whether certain people are in a romantic relationship, to find out who attended a particular meeting or who was at a particular protest, or to try and identify a journalist's confidential source.

Commit message:

Update to mention activity trackers

contents_en/communications/mobile-phones/location.md, after:

[Title]: # (Location)
[Difficulty]: # (Beginner)
[Order]: # (3)

## 3. Phones give out information about their location

The greatest privacy threat from mobile phones is the way that they announce your location all day and all night through the signals they broadcast. Every mobile phone automatically and regularly informs the phone service provider where it is at that moment. Only if a phone is switched off or without signal will it be prevented to send out such signals.
![image](mobile4.png)

If you have a smartphone your location can also be tracked from apps, WI-FI or Bluetooth. Many apps use your GPS location to help them provide services, or just to collect data for their own use. Also, many hardware devices such as activity trackers also collect and store your information. You should check privacy settings, leave your device at home or only turn on your location when you need it. Make sure that you only give location permissions to apps that you trust and that have a good reason to know where you are.

In each case, location tracking is not only about finding where someone is right now. It can also be about answering questions about people's historical activities and also about their beliefs, participation in events, and personal relationships. For example, location tracking could be used to try to find out whether certain people are in a romantic relationship, to find out who attended a particular meeting or who was at a particular protest, or to try and identify a journalist's confidential source.
