Title:Location Selection
Difficulty:Beginner
Order:1
---
<p>You should choose the area you plan to meet in carefully. It should be an area the person you are meeting (and you if possible) is comfortable in and knows well. If you don?t know it ? get to know it. You should be able to plan out your approach, possible escape and nearby safe spots such as partners, supportive local population, and embassies.</p><p>Once you have chosen the area, you need to choose the specific meeting location. Often the most obvious locations such as their office/home offer a false sense of security and you can be more likely to be under surveillance there. It may be better to meet in a public place such as a café. In choosing a café, be careful of the usual spots that human rights defenders frequent ? Perhaps adversaries are aware of this this too. Try to choose a location not frequented by people likely to be targeted by surveillance. If you don?t know a location and will not get a chance to see it before you arrive, use the internet to try and view pictures and gather information about it.</p><p>Think about various aspects that may allow you to fit in:<ul><li>Who are the clientele who use it?</li><li>What do they wear?</li><li>What size groups do they sit in?</li><li>Are the tables so close to each other that you can be easily overheard?</li><li>Is it likely to be crowded?</li><li>Would you look suspicious entering there?</li></ul><p>Try to check if there?s there a place to sit where you can observe the whole location but still have your back to a wall and be close to / have a clear path to an escape route. You should always have an alternative backup meeting place nearby and if you feel there is a risk of surveillance or problems at your first choice location ? be ready to switch to it at the very last minute.</p>