Title:Effects
Difficulty:Expert
Order:12
---
<h1>Effects</h1><p>The specific symptoms of PTSD can vary widely between individuals, but they generally fall into the categories described below. These symptoms are often severe and persistent enough to have a significant impact on the person?s day-to-day life.</p><p><b>Re-experiencing</b><br>Re-experiencing is the most typical symptom of PTSD. This is when a person involuntarily and vividly re-lives the traumatic event in the form of flashbacks, nightmares or repetitive and distressing images or sensations. This can even include physical sensations such as pain, sweating and trembling or negative thoughts about their experience.</p><p><b>Avoidance</b><br>Trying to avoid being reminded of the traumatic event is another key symptom of PTSD. This usually means avoiding certain people or places that remind you of the trauma, or avoiding talking to anyone about your experience. Many people with PTSD try distracting themselves with work or hobbies. Some people attempt to deal with their feelings by trying not to feel anything at all, which can lead to the person becoming isolated and withdrawn.</p><p><b>Feeling 'on edge</b><br>Someone with PTSD may be very anxious and find it difficult to relax. They may be constantly aware of threats and easily startled. This state of mind is known as hyper-arousal. Hyper-arousal often leads to irritability, angry outbursts, sleeping problems (insomnia) and difficulty concentrating.</p><p><b>Other problems</b><br>Many people with PTSD also have a number of other problems, including:<ul><li>depression, anxiety and phobias</li><li>drug misuse or alcohol misuse</li><li>headaches, dizziness, chest pains and stomach aches</li><li>PTSD sometimes leads to work-related problems and the breakdown of relationships.</li></ul></p>