Title:Effects
Difficulty:Advanced
Order:1
---
<h1>Effects</h1><p>At the time of a traumatic event, the person experiencing the event might feel numb and unable to respond.</p><p>Immediately after a traumatic event, it is common for people to feel shocked, or dazed, or unable to process their own feelings.</p><p>Over several hours or days, the feelings of shock and denial gradually fade, and other thoughts and feelings take their place.</p><p>People react differently and take different amounts of time to come to terms with a traumatic event. Even so, you may be surprised by the strength of your feelings. It is normal to experience a mix of feelings.</p><p>You may feel:<ul><li><b>Frightened</b> ? that the same thing will happen again, or that you might lose control of your feelings and break down.</li><li><b>Helpless</b> ? that something really bad happened and you could do nothing about it.</li><li><b>Angry</b> ? about what has happened and with whoever was responsible.</li><li><b>Guilty</b> ? that you have survived when others have suffered or died.</li><li><b>Sad</b> ? particularly if people were injured or killed, especially someone you knew.</li><li><b>Ashamed or embarrassed</b> ? that you have these strong feelings you can't control, especially if you need others to support you.</li><li><b>Relieved</b> ? that the danger is over and that the danger has gone.</li><li><b>Hopeful</b> ? that your life will return to normal. People can start to feel more positive about things quite soon after a trauma.</li></ul></p><p>Strong feelings affect your physical health. In the weeks after a trauma, you may find that you:<ul><li>Cannot sleep</li><li>Feel very tired</li><li>Dream a lot and have nightmares</li><li>Have poor concentration</li><li>Have memory problems</li><li>Have difficulty thinking clearly</li><li>Suffer from headaches</li><li>Experience changes in appetite</li><li>Experience changes in sex-drive or libido</li><li>Have aches and pains</li><li>Feel that your heart is beating faster.</li></ul></p><p>It may take weeks for some of these feelings and symptoms to pass. Remember that these are normal reactions to extreme circumstances; they are not signs that you are weak or sick.</p>