contents_en/communications/email/beginner/switching-to-a-more-secure-email-account.md, before:

[Title]: # (Switching to a more secure email account)
[Order]: # (7)

# Switching to a more secure email account

While using HTTPS protects your communications from other people on your network, there are some things that it does not do. When you send email using HTTPS, your email provider still gets an unencrypted copy of your communication. Governments and law enforcement may be able to access this data with a warrant.

Yahoo and Hotmail, for instance, provide a secure connection only while you log in, to protect your password, but your messages themselves are sent and received insecurely. They also insert the IP address of the computer you are using into all of the messages you send. We do not recommend that you use them for secure communications. 

## Gmail

Gmail accounts, on the other hand, use a secure connection during log-in and all the way until you log out and, unlike Yahoo or Hotmail, Gmail avoids revealing your IP address to email recipients. One way to make Gmail (or Yahoo) even more secure is to turn on 2-step-verification. This is one of the safest and simplest computer-security measures. To break into an account with 2-Step Verification, intruders would not only have to know your username and password, they'd also have to get a hold of your phone, or codes you hold with you. Setting it up is simple: [see here](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185839?hl=en).

However, it is not recommend that you rely on Google for the total confidentiality of your sensitive email communication. Google scans and records the content of its users' messages for a wide variety of purposes and has, in the past, conceded to the demands of governments that restrict digital freedom. 

## Protonmail and Tutanota

[Protonmail](https://protonmail.com) and [Tutanota](https://tutanota.com) are two services which offer encrypted mail and strong privacy respecting policies. Users can easily sign up for a free email account and many find it easier than setting up PGP encryption. However, mails are only encrypted between users of each service.

## RiseUp

If possible, you should create a new RiseUp email account by visiting [https://mail.riseup.net](https://mail.riseup.net). RiseUp offers free email to activists around the world and takes great care to protect the information stored on their servers. Unlike Google, they have very strict policies regarding their users' privacy and no commercial interests that might some day conflict with those policies. In order to create a new RiseUp account, however, you may need two 'invite codes.' These codes can be given out by anyone who already has a RiseUp account. Otherwise, you will need to tell RiseUp about yourself and they may give you access.

Commit message:

Break up paragraphs in switching-to-a-more-secure-email-account.md

contents_en/communications/email/beginner/switching-to-a-more-secure-email-account.md, after:

[Title]: # (Switching to a more secure email account)
[Order]: # (7)

# Choose a secure provider

Some webmail accounts provide a secure connection while you log in to protect your password, but don't protect your messages. Some also include your computer's IP address in emails. 

Even when you send email using HTTPS, your email provider still gets an unencrypted copy of your communication. Government and law enforcement officials may be able to access this data.

## Gmail

Google offers some security features, but it's not recommended for sensitive email. 

*	Gmail accounts use a secure connection and don't reveal your IP address to email recipients. 
*	However, Google scans and records email content for a variety of purposes and has conceded to the demands of governments that restrict digital freedom in the past.
*	Always turn on 2-step verification, a kind of two-factor authentication (2FA). Setting it up is [simple](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185839?hl=en).

(Learn about 2FA in 
[Passwords Advanced](umbrella://lesson/passwords/1).) 

## Protonmail and Tutanota

[Protonmail](https://protonmail.com) and [Tutanota](https://tutanota.com) offer free email accounts with strong privacy policies. 

Emails between users of the same service are encrypted end-to-end, so the provider can't read them.

## RiseUp

RiseUp [https://mail.riseup.net](https://mail.riseup.net) offers free email to activists, strong privacy policies, and a commitment to protect information on their servers.  

To create a RiseUp account: 
*	Ask two existing users for an invite code; or,
*	Tell RiseUp about yourself and they may give you access.
