contents_en/communications/sending-a-message/sending-secure-sms-on-your-phone.md, before:

[Title]: # (Sending secure SMS on your phone)
[Difficulty]: # (Beginner)
[Order]: # (1)

# Sending secure SMS on your phone

## SMSSecure

SMSSecure is a free, open-source tool for sending and receiving secure SMS text messages on Android phones. It works both for encrypted and non-encrypted SMS, so you can use it as your default SMS application. It automatically imports all your contacts and existing SMS, so only takes a few seconds to set up. No internet connection is required to send or receive SMS. To exchange encrypted SMS this tool has to be installed by both the sender and the recipient of a message, so you will need to get people you communicate with regularly to use it as well. SMSSecure also encrypts all SMS locally, so if your phone is lost or stolen, your messages are protected.

Many people who previously used TextSecure (now called Signal) for secure SMS now use SMSSecure.

You can find SMSSecure on [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.smssecure.smssecure) and installation takes only a few clicks.

Commit message:

Replace SMSSecure with Silence. Link to Silence.im instead of Google Play as older link not working.

contents_en/communications/sending-a-message/sending-secure-sms-on-your-phone.md, after:

[Title]: # (Sending secure SMS on your phone)
[Difficulty]: # (Beginner)
[Order]: # (1)

# Sending secure SMS on your phone

## Silence

Silence is a free, open-source tool for sending and receiving secure SMS text messages on Android phones. It works both for encrypted and non-encrypted SMS, so you can use it as your default SMS application. It automatically imports all your contacts and existing SMS, so only takes a few seconds to set up. No internet connection is required to send or receive SMS. To exchange encrypted SMS this tool has to be installed by both the sender and the recipient of a message, so you will need to get people you communicate with regularly to use it as well. Silence also encrypts all SMS locally, so if your phone is lost or stolen, your messages are protected.

Many people who previously used TextSecure (now called Signal) for secure SMS now use Silence (formerly SMSSecure).

You can find Silence at [silence.im](https://silence.im) and installation takes only a few clicks.
