contents_en/travel/preparation/beginner/standard-operating-procedures.md, before:

[Title]: # (Standard Operating Procedures)
[Order]: # (3)

Standard operating procedures are step-by-step instructions for any scenario.  

Establish these before your trip and share them with your team. 

# 1. The plan

## Itinerary 
*   Create a schedule of travel, meetings, and events. 

If required, inform authorities or embassies of your travel plans.

(Learn how to prepare for sensitive [meetings](umbrella://lesson/meetings).)

*	Create a communication schedule. 

Check in regularly with someone who is not travelling with you and can provide support in an emergency.

*   Establish curfews, deadlines, and no-go areas. 

(Learn to plan long drives in [vehicles](umbrella://lesson/vehicles).)

## Security measures 
*    Prepare a cover story for airports and elsewhere. 

(Learn how to cross [borders](umbrella://lesson/borders) and [checkpoints](umbrella://lesson/checkpoints).)

*   Only carry information you really need.  
		* Delete non-essential information from devices.  
		* Back up information securely before travel.
        * Carry sensitive information securely. 
       
(Learn about [backing up](umbrella://lesson/backing-up), [safely deleting](umbrella://lesson/safely-deleting), and [protecting files](umbrella://lesson/protecting-files).)

*	Schedule security or equipment training if required. 

# 2. The backup plan

Have an alternative plan to exit the country. Do you have a 'stand-by' visa for a neighbouring country?

## Create a constant companion

A "constant companion" contains everything you need for evacuation. 

Consider: 
*	Cash;
*	Key documents;
*	Emergency names and contact information;
*	Reputable hotels or other emergency destinations.

### Carry your constant companion on your person at all times. 

(Learn more about [evacuation](umbrella://lesson/evacuation).)

## Prepare for serious security incidents

* 	Develop procedures based on context assessment. 

*   Schedule personal security training if necessary. 

(Learn about [arrests](umbrella://lesson/arrests) and [kidnapping](umbrella://lesson/kidnapping).)

Commit message:

Link to protective equipment in standard-operating-procedures.md

contents_en/travel/preparation/beginner/standard-operating-procedures.md, after:

[Title]: # (Standard Operating Procedures)
[Order]: # (3)

Standard operating procedures are step-by-step instructions for any scenario.  

Establish these before your trip and share them with your team. 

# 1. The plan

## Itinerary 
*   Create a schedule of travel, meetings, and events. 

If required, inform authorities or embassies of your travel plans.

(Learn how to prepare for sensitive [meetings](umbrella://lesson/meetings).)

*	Create a communication schedule. 

Check in regularly with someone who is not travelling with you and can provide support in an emergency.

*   Establish curfews, deadlines, and no-go areas. 

(Learn to plan long drives in [vehicles](umbrella://lesson/vehicles).)

## Security measures 
*    Prepare a cover story for airports and elsewhere. 

(Learn how to cross [borders](umbrella://lesson/borders) and [checkpoints](umbrella://lesson/checkpoints).)

*   Only carry information you really need.  
		* Delete non-essential information from devices.  
		* Back up information securely before travel.
        * Carry sensitive information securely. 
       
(Learn about [backing up](umbrella://lesson/backing-up), [safely deleting](umbrella://lesson/safely-deleting), and [protecting files](umbrella://lesson/protecting-files).)

*	Schedule security or equipment training if required. 

# 2. The backup plan

*	Have an alternative plan to exit the country. 
		* Carry extra passport-size photos for emergency documents. 
		* Do you need a 'stand-by' visa for a neighbouring country?
		         
## Create a constant companion

A "constant companion" contains everything you need for evacuation. 

(Learn more about [evacuation](umbrella://lesson/evacuation).)

Consider: 
*	Cash;
*	Key documents;
*	Emergency names and contact information;
*	Reputable hotels or other emergency destinations.

### Carry your constant companion on your person at all times. 

(Learn about grab bags in [protective equipment](umbrella://lesson/protective-equipment).)

## Prepare for serious security incidents

* 	Develop procedures based on context assessment. 

*   Schedule personal security training if necessary. 

(Learn about [arrests](umbrella://lesson/arrests) and [kidnapping](umbrella://lesson/kidnapping).)
