Title:Radio procedures
Difficulty:Beginner
Order:9
---
<h1>Radio procedures </h1><p>The benefits of radio equipment can be maximized by following simple standard radio procedures. </p><p><ul><li>Equipment is maintained in optimum condition.</li><li>Staff and visitors are trained in the use of radios.</li><li>All authorized frequencies and selective calling lists are posted at base stations and in mobile units.</li><li>Radios are monitored 24 hours a day in moderate, high, or severe risk alert countries.</li><li>Each communication has clarity, brevity and security. To ensure effective communication, use the following procedures: <ul><li>Ensure no one else is transmitting at the same time. Wait for ongoing discussions to finish and the users to sign off before beginning transmission. </li><li>Make message brief but precise. </li><li> Use common procedure words. </li><li> Use call signs instead of personal names. Do not identify organizations or personnel by name over the radio. </li><li>Break the message into sensible passages with clear pauses between.</li><li>Maintain clear speech with normal rhythm and moderate volume. </li><li>Hold the microphone approximately five centimeters from mouth. </li><li> Avoid excessive calling. Use radios for work-related purposes only. </li><li> Never transmit specific security-related information or travel plans or discuss transfer of cash or goods.</li></ul></li><li>Use of duress code words is encouraged for all risk levels. Duress code words are generally innocuous words or phrases selected for use over the radio or telephone to indicate that the speaker is in a threatening situation but not free to communicate.</li></ul></p>