contents_en/communications/making-a-call/beginner/making-secure-calls-on-your-phone.md, before:

[Title]: # (Making secure calls on your phone)
[Order]: # (2)

# Making secure calls on your phone

## Signal

Signal is a free, simple open-source tool for sending secure end-to-end messages and making encrypted phone calls.  It is available for [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.securesms), [iPhone](https://itunes.apple.com/ie/app/signal-private-messenger/id874139669), and Desktop. It requires that person you are communicating with also has Signal installed.

Signal uses your existing phone number and address book. There are no separate logins, usernames, passwords to manage or lose. It uses your mobile number as your identificator (like a user name) - this makes it easier for the user, though it also makes it easier to analyze the traffic it produces and trace it back to you. Signal uses a central server, which is a point of centralization and thus puts it in the powerful position of having control over some of this data. However, they cannot hear your conversations or see your messages, so no one else can either. Signal also allows you to set a time for messages to disappear once they have been read by the person you are sending them to.

Learn more about Signal and how to set it up in the Signal tool guides for [Android] (umbrella://lesson/signal-for-android) and [iOS] (umbrella://lesson/signal-for-ios).

Commit message:

Break up paragraphs in making-secure-calls-on-your-phone.md

contents_en/communications/making-a-call/beginner/making-secure-calls-on-your-phone.md, after:

[Title]: # (Making secure calls on your phone)
[Order]: # (2)

# Signal

Signal is a free, simple, open-source tool for messaging and voice calls with end-to-end encryption.  

Download Signal for: 

*	[Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.securesms); 
*	[iPhone](https://itunes.apple.com/ie/app/signal-private-messenger/id874139669); 
*	[Desktop] (https://signal.org/download/). 

The person you are communicating with must also install Signal.

# How it works

## Your number is your username. 

*	There are no separate logins, usernames, or passwords to manage or lose. 
*	This makes it easier for you; it could also make it easier to analyze the traffic it produces and trace it back to you. 

## Signal uses a central server. 

*	Signal developers [Open Whisper Systems] operate a central server. You can't run your own, which would give you more control over your security. 
*	However, they cannot hear your conversations or see your messages, so no one else can either. 

## Built-in privacy features.

Signal allows you to set messages to disappear, along with other privacy features.

Learn how to set it up in the Signal tool guides for [Android] (umbrella://lesson/signal-for-android) and [iOS] (umbrella://lesson/signal-for-ios).
