contents_en/communications/social-media/advanced/hate-speech-against-women.md, before:

[Title]: # (Hate speech against women)
[Order]: # (2) 

> *"[Anonymous online harassment] discourages women from writing and earning a living online. It interferes with their professional lives. It brands them as incompetent workers and inferior sexual objects."* Danielle Keats Citron, US lawyer 

Women with visibility on the internet receive a disproportionate amount of abuse because the internet remains a male-dominated space. 

Women's visibility in online spaces challenges gender inequality and male privilege.

## The goal of abuse

Abusers seek to intimidate and silence female commentators to preserve the status quo.

*	Hate speech is directed at journalists, bloggers and activists simply because they are women. 

*	Women are attacked regardless of what they are writing about, but especially if they write about anything to do with women or tackle male-dominated subjects.

*	Women are attacked because of their sexuality and physical appearance, not their ideas. 

*	When the writer is a woman of colour and/or LGBTQI, she will often face hate speech attacking her gender, race/ethnicity and sexuality.

*	Online attacks discourage women from writing, earning a living, and participating in public life on the internet. 

## Speak up

Everyone needs to work to end the discrimination faced by women online.

*	Document and acknowledge the problem.

*Read more: [Anita Sarkeesian's Guide to Internetting While Female](https://www.marieclaire.com/culture/news/a13403/online-harassment-terms-fight-back/)*

*	Offer support.

*Read more: PEN America, [Best Practices for Allies and Witnesses] (https://onlineharassmentfieldmanual.pen.org/best-practices-for-allies-and-witnesses/)*

*	Demand more from people with responsibility.

*Read more: Amnesty International, [Toxic Twitter: A toxic place for women] (https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/research/2018/03/online-violence-against-women-chapter-1/#topanchor)*

Commit message:

Link to expert lesson in hate-speech-against-women.md

contents_en/communications/social-media/advanced/hate-speech-against-women.md, after:

[Title]: # (Hate speech against women)
[Order]: # (2) 

Women with visibility on the internet receive a disproportionate amount of hateful speech because the internet remains a male-dominated space. 

Women's visibility in online spaces challenges gender inequality and male privilege.

(Learn about [gender-based violence online](umbrella://lesson/social-media/2)) 

## The goal of abuse

Abusers seek to intimidate and silence female commentators to preserve the status quo.

*	Hate speech is directed at journalists, bloggers and activists simply because they are women. 

*	Women are attacked regardless of what they are writing about, but especially if they write about anything to do with women or tackle male-dominated subjects.

*	Women are attacked because of their sexuality and physical appearance, not their ideas. 

*	When the writer is a woman of colour and/or LGBTQI, she will often face hate speech attacking her gender, race/ethnicity and sexuality.

*	Online attacks discourage women from writing, earning a living, and participating in public life on the internet. 

## Speak up

Everyone needs to work to end the discrimination faced by women online.

*	Document and acknowledge the problem.

*Read more: [Anita Sarkeesian's Guide to Internetting While Female](https://www.marieclaire.com/culture/news/a13403/online-harassment-terms-fight-back/)*

*	Offer support.

*Read more: PEN America, [Best Practices for Allies and Witnesses] (https://onlineharassmentfieldmanual.pen.org/best-practices-for-allies-and-witnesses/)*

*	Demand more from people with responsibility.

*Read more: Amnesty International, [Toxic Twitter: A toxic place for women] (https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/research/2018/03/online-violence-against-women-chapter-1/#topanchor)*
