contents_en/communications/social-media/advanced/respond-to-hate-speech.md, before:


[Title]: # (How to respond to hate speech)
[Order]: # (3) 

You may feel helpless, but you can take action and know that it's not your fault. The following strategies have proven useful for other survivors, with examples from women writers and journalists.

*Trust your instinct. Since not all situations are the same, different strategies have worked for different people. It's important that you recognise your comfort level and trust your instinct.*

## Ignore them

Journalist Dawn Foster decided not to engage: "In the end, I discovered the best way to combat the abuse was to ignore it. If someone writes a derailing comment, delete it. Someone wishes rape upon you on Twitter, block them. Someone emails you self-righteous bile, don't reply: forward it on to your friends to amuse them during their coffee break. Nobody's entitled to a reply, contrary to what the trolls may think."

## Report them

Columnist and fiction writer Bina Shah uses all the tools at her disposal, including reporting: "Be ready to report them if they threaten you with violence. Expose them. They expect you to cower with fear. Don’t do it. Show them who’s boss."

(Learn to report other types of [online abuse](umbrella://lesson/social-media/2).)

## Expose them

Blogger Cath Elliot wants to make sure abusers are seen for what they are: "I think it's imperative that women who write online continue to speak out about the abuse we're subjected to, and that we expose the Internet misogynists at every opportunity we get."

## Engage them

Journalist and radio host Emma Barnett used her show to interview two trolls, eliciting a positive response from listeners and internet users: "I’m hopeful that the huge reaction his unfathomable comments provoked will have shamed him into realising how awful his approach is. "

## Seek support

You're not alone in this, and getting others to witness and support you is important and can help you feel more secure in taking action: "[Critic] Anita Sarkeesian tweets just as much of the #lovemail she receives as the #hatemail, and that must be one of the things that keep her going."

## Go anonymous

Human rights activist Vani keeps her real name quiet: "I voice my opinions on a range of topics. But, I remain faceless and nameless. It helps me distance my life from my opinions because I know how crazy it can get there."

## Stay online if you can

Feminist writer Sady Doyle won't be stopped: "The best way to 'stay safe' online may simply be to stay online. After all: If there’s no one left willing to complain about the harassment, what are the odds that it’s going to change?"

(Learn how to protect yourself from [phishing] (umbrella://lesson/phishing) and [malware] (umbrella://lesson/malware/0).)

Commit message:

correct link to expert lesson in respond-to-hate-speech.md

contents_en/communications/social-media/advanced/respond-to-hate-speech.md, after:


[Title]: # (How to respond to hate speech)
[Order]: # (3) 

You may feel helpless, but you can take action and know that it's not your fault. The following strategies have proven useful for other survivors, with examples from women writers and journalists.

*Trust your instinct. Since not all situations are the same, different strategies have worked for different people. It's important that you recognise your comfort level and trust your instinct.*

## Ignore them

Journalist Dawn Foster decided not to engage: "In the end, I discovered the best way to combat the abuse was to ignore it. If someone writes a derailing comment, delete it. Someone wishes rape upon you on Twitter, block them. Someone emails you self-righteous bile, don't reply: forward it on to your friends to amuse them during their coffee break. Nobody's entitled to a reply, contrary to what the trolls may think."

## Report them

Columnist and fiction writer Bina Shah uses all the tools at her disposal, including reporting: "Be ready to report them if they threaten you with violence. Expose them. They expect you to cower with fear. Don’t do it. Show them who’s boss."

(Learn more about this in [social media expert](umbrella://lesson/social-media/2).)

## Expose them

Blogger Cath Elliot wants to make sure abusers are seen for what they are: "I think it's imperative that women who write online continue to speak out about the abuse we're subjected to, and that we expose the Internet misogynists at every opportunity we get."

## Engage them

Journalist and radio host Emma Barnett used her show to interview two trolls, eliciting a positive response from listeners and internet users: "I’m hopeful that the huge reaction his unfathomable comments provoked will have shamed him into realising how awful his approach is. "

## Seek support

You're not alone in this, and getting others to witness and support you is important and can help you feel more secure in taking action: "[Critic] Anita Sarkeesian tweets just as much of the #lovemail she receives as the #hatemail, and that must be one of the things that keep her going."

## Go anonymous

Human rights activist Vani keeps her real name quiet: "I voice my opinions on a range of topics. But, I remain faceless and nameless. It helps me distance my life from my opinions because I know how crazy it can get there."

## Stay online if you can

Feminist writer Sady Doyle won't be stopped: "The best way to 'stay safe' online may simply be to stay online. After all: If there’s no one left willing to complain about the harassment, what are the odds that it’s going to change?"

(Learn about [phishing] (umbrella://lesson/phishing) and [malware] (umbrella://lesson/malware/0).)
