Title:Your backup strategy
Difficulty:Advanced
Order:2
---
<h1>Your backup strategy</h1><p>To back up all of the data types listed above, you will need a combination of software and processes. Basically, you need to make sure that each data type is stored in at least two separate locations.</p><p><ul><li><b>Electronic documents</b> - Create a full backup of the documents on your computer using a program like Cobian Backup, which is described in more detail below. Store the backup on something portable so that you can take it home or to some other safe location. External hard drives, CD/DVDs or USB memory sticks are possible choices. Because this category of data often contains the most sensitive information, it is important to protect your electronic document backups using encryption. You can learn how to do this in the <a href="umbrella://lesson/protecting-files">Protecting Files lesson</a> and in the <a href="umbrella://lesson/truecrypt">TrueCrypt Guide</a>.</li><li><b>Program databases</b> - If you use a calendar application or an electronic address book, for example, you will need to find the folder in which these programs store their data. Once you have determined the location of your program databases, you can back them up in the same way as electronic documents.</li><li><b>Email</b> - Rather than accessing your email only through a web browser, install an email client like Thunderbird and configure it to work with your account. The <a href="umbrella://lesson/thunderbird">Thunderbird</a> Guide explains in detail how to do this. Also most webmail services will provide instructions on how to use such programs and, often, how to import your email addresses into them. If you choose to move your old email messages to your computer so they are not stored on the server for security reasons, make sure that you include them in the backup of electronic documents described above.</li><li><b>Mobile phone contents</b> - To back up the phone numbers and text messages on your mobile phone, you can connect it to your computer using the appropriate software, which is generally available from the website of the company that manufactured your phone. You may need to buy a special USB cable to do this.</li><li><b>Printed documents</b> - Where possible, you should scan all of your important papers, then back them up along with your other electronic documents, as discussed above.</li></ul></p>