contents_en/information/passwords/advanced/two-step-authentication.md, before:

[Title]: # (Two-step authentication)
[Order]: # (2)

# Two-step authentication

Many services and software tools let you use two-step authentication. Here the idea is that in order to log in, you need to be in possession of a certain physical object: usually a mobile phone, but, in some versions, a special device called a security token. Using two-step authentication ensures that even if your password for the service is hacked or stolen, the thief won't be able to log in unless they also have control of a second device, such as your phone, and the special codes that only it can create.
![image](password_adv2.png)

Two-step authentication using a mobile phone can be done in two ways: your phone can run an authenticator application, such as [Google Authenticator](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.authenticator2), which generates security codes that you need to provide when you try to log in, or alternatively the service can send you an SMS text message to your phone. This will help protect your account in situations where an attacker has your password but does not have physical access to your mobile phone. SMS text messages with two step codes can be intercepted so where possible it is better to use security codes created by an authenticator application.

Commit message:

Break up paragraphs, add twofactorauth.org in two-step-authentication.md

contents_en/information/passwords/advanced/two-step-authentication.md, after:

[Title]: # (2FA)
[Order]: # (2)

# Two-Factor Authentication (2FA)

It's easy to add extra security to your accounts with 2FA, and recommended for everyone.  

Accounts with a password protect your information with something you *know.* Accounts with 2FA also protect your information with something that you *have.* 

In order to log in, you need to be in possession of a certain physical object:  

* A phone that can receive a code by SMS text message; 
* A phone with an authenticator app that you have set up to generate codes; 
* A special device called a universal second factor (U2F) token or key. 

Even if your password is hacked or stolen, the thief won't be able to log in unless they also have control of the second device, such as your phone, and the special codes that only it can create.

![image](password_adv2.png)

## 2FA apps are more secure than SMS 

SMS text messages can be intercepted, and most U2F devices cost money. The best solution for most people is to use an app like [Google Authenticator](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.authenticator2). 

The [Two Factor Auth] (https://twofactorauth.org/) project tracks services and software that allow you to add 2FA.
