[Title]: # (ограничение)
[Order]: # (3)

*   Anticipate periods of isolation and other methods of intimidation and prepare for a long wait. Do not believe everything you are told. Try to persuade your abductors to contact your colleagues or the authorities, find reasons why this would benefit them.
*   Try to build a relationship of respect whilst keeping your dignity, do not beg or plead; be cooperative and obey demands without being servile or aggressive; do not discuss politics, keep to subjects of mutual interest such as family and children; encourage your abductors to view you as a person.
*   Try to retain personal belongings such as clothes, identification, watch and books unless forced to hand them over; ask for practical things such as toiletries, medicines, or time to exercise; avoid an exchange of clothes with abductors - it may hinder your identification in a rescue attempt.
*   Be aware of body language and non-verbal communication styles; do not threaten to testify against abductors; if concealing their identity, do not indicate that you recognise them.
*   Eat and drink water even if you have no appetite or it is unpalatable; maintain a routine of rest and activity; try to exercise daily and to keep track of time; maintain personal hygiene and maintain your values.
*   Try to remember positive and pleasant memories, meditation techniques or other ways to connect to your personality; mentally reconstruct books or movies; think positively; do not despair; do not allow yourself to be convinced that you have been abandoned - your colleagues and family will be working on your release.
*   Keep a low profile, avoid appearing to study your abductors, although, to the extent possible, make mental notes about mannerisms, behaviour, speech, clothes, ranks, etc, in order to understand their profile, attitude and intentions; it may help in establishing possibilities for communication, the potential risks and may help the authorities after your release.
*   Agree to talk on the radio, phone or video: say only what you are asked to, do not try to send signals or messages; if asked to sign notes, or write a confession, do so if not doing so will endanger your, or others, well being. You may be asked for specific details of your personal life and/or family, be aware this may be part of ongoing negotiations regarding your release (known as proof of life). Never get directly involved in the negotiations for your release. This will only complicate matters.