Title:What to do if your email is hacked
Difficulty:Beginner
Order:12
---
<h1>What to do if your email is hacked</h1><p>In such situations you may want to take some cautionary action:<ul><li><b>Stop using this email account for sensitive information exchange</b>, at least until you understand the situation better.</li><li><b>Change your password</b> for this and all other accounts with a similar password as soon as possible. </li><li><b>Change your security question answers</b> (if you use them) for all accounts, so they are impossible to guess, or find the answer through researching information about you. </li><li><b>If you are not able to log in</b> to your account to change the passwords, consider getting in contact with your email provider to try to reclaim your account. </li><li><b>Mitigate information loss and impact</b> to your community. Determine what kinds of sensitive information and contacts you had in your account and decide whom you should alert. Determine what services (web, financial, etc.) you need to revisit or cancel. It is important that you <b>check the folders of your account</b> to research on what could have been sent from your account and to act accordingly. </li><li><b>Review your account settings</b> to see possible changes that has been made. Check accounts signature option for links and malware, forwarding options that would allow to copy emails that you receive to third account, away message, display name, etc.</li><li><b>Research how your account was compromised.</b> Was it because of having a weak password, or due to malware infection, etc. The more you will establish about this, the better you will be able to respond to the situation and better you will be able to protect your contacts.</li><li><b>Review security of all of your devices</b> that access emails from this account, and devices on which you stored the password to this email account. Scan your computer: learn how in the <a href="umbrella://lesson/malware">Malware</a> lesson. Consider switching to more secure programs like Firefox, Thunderbird, LibreOffice and other Free and Open Source Programs. After making the above improvements to the security of your devices, change your account passwords again to new, stronger ones.</li><li><b>Consider reporting hacking</b> of your account to your email provider.</li><li><b>Consider using a more secure account</b>, e.g. one that notifies you of and prevent access from unusual places or devices. Consider using account that is hosted outside of your country. Consider using email encryption, such as PGP, outlines in the Advanced section of this lesson. </li><li><b>Consider avoiding storing read emails.</b></li></ul></p><p>It is important that you act quickly and precisely in the situation like this. Having a prepared and rehearsed plan may help you.</p