Title:At the Protest
Difficulty:Advanced
Order:4
---
<p>Once you are at the protest, keep in mind that law enforcement may be monitoring communications in the area. You may wish to encrypt your messages using Textsecure (Androids) or Signal (iPhones), or encrypt your phone calls using RedPhone (Androids) or, again, Signal (iPhones). All these apps are compatible. You can read more about them in the Sending a Message or Making a Call lessons.</p><p>Please remember that even if your communications are encrypted, your metadata is not; this means your mobile phone will still give away your location and information such as whom you are talking to and for how long.</p><p>When capturing pictures or video it is important to be careful of privacy and safety of those pictured. For example, if you take photos or record video of a sensitive event, it might be dangerous to you or to those who appear in the recordings if your phone fell into the wrong hands. The Guardian Project has created an app called ObscuraCam to detect/select faces on photos and blur them. It also deletes the original photos and if you have set up a server to upload the captured media, it provides an easy way to upload it.</p><p>Metadata such as phone identity and location are also captured on photos and videos. In some instances, such information is really important to have to prove the credibility of images and video so that they could be used as evidence in courts of law. At other times metadata can put you or others at risk. The Guardian Project has made a plugin tool for ObscuraCam called InformaCam that allows you to store a version of the image/video with metadata while also creating a redacted version without any sensitive data that can safely be shared on social media.</p>