Title:Preparing Your Phone
Difficulty:Advanced
Order:1
---
<p>To protect your rights, you may want to harden your existing phone against searches. For the full set of advice on how to manage the security of your mobile phone, go the <b>Mobile Phone Lesson.</b><ul><li><b>Passwords:</b> Always password-protect your phone. While password-protecting your phone is a small barrier to access, please be aware that it is not an effective barrier to expert forensic analysis.</li><li><b>Encryption:</b>Some phones have encryption options available ? these should be applied. If you have an Android phone this can be done in Settings -> Personal -> Security -> Encryption. The Electronic Frontier Foundation has a guide on how to encrypt iPhones.</li><li><b>Download secure apps:</b> Make sure you and your colleagues have downloaded apps that will allow you to communicate and operate securely. (These are explained in detail later in this lesson)<ul><li><b>For communicating</b>: Textsecure and RedPhone (for Androids) or Signal (for iPhones)</li><li><b>For filming/photographing:</b>ObscuraCam and InformaCam</li><li><b>For emergencies:</b> Panic Button (Android only)</li></ul></li><li><b>Back up your data:</b> It?s important that you frequently back up the data stored on your phone, especially if your device lands into the hands of a police officer. You may not get your phone back for a while (if at all) and it is possible that its contents may be deleted, whether intentionally or not.</li><li><b>Keep an emergency number:</b> Consider writing one important, but non-incriminating phone number on your body with a permanent marker in case you lose your phone, or are in police custody but are permitted to make a call.</li><li><b>Use a throwaway:</b> You should also consider bringing a throwaway or alternate phone to the protest that does not contain sensitive data, which you?ve never used to log in to your communications or social media accounts, and which you would not mind losing or parting with for a while. If you have a lot of sensitive or personal information on your phone, or you need to conceal your presence at the protest, this might be the best option for you.</li></ul></p>