contents_en/operations/counter-surveillance/beginner/surveillance.md, before:

[Title]: # (Surveillance)
[Order]: # (11)

Surveillance is the monitoring of people's behaviour, activities, or other patterns to harm, influence, manage, direct, or protect them.
![image](surveillance1.png)

Consider who might consider you a surveillance target, and why.  

## Who?

*   Local authorities (police, intelligence, military);
*   International intelligence agencies;
*	Embassy officials from other countries;
*   Criminals;
*   Terrorists;
*   Private contractors;
*   Disgruntled individuals. 

## Why?

*	To learn what you are doing;
*	While planning a serious incident, such as theft, arrest, kidnap, intimidation, or attack.

(Learn more about [kidnapping](umbrella://lesson/kidnapping/0) and [arrest](umbrella://lesson/arrests).)

## How? 

### Technical surveillance

Bugs, listening devices, video cameras, or number plate readers.

(Learn more about this in [meetings](umbrella://lesson/meetings).)

### Digital surveillance 

Monitoring of digital communications and devices.

(Learn about [malware](umbrella://lesson/malware/0), [phishing] (umbrella://lesson/phishing), and [mobile phones](umbrella://lesson/mobile-phones).)

### Human surveillance

Physical monitoring on foot or in a vehicle.

This lesson addresses human surveillance.

Commit message:

LInk to advanced and expert in surveillance.md

contents_en/operations/counter-surveillance/beginner/surveillance.md, after:

[Title]: # (Surveillance)
[Order]: # (11)

Surveillance is the monitoring of people's behaviour, activities, or other patterns to harm, influence, manage, direct, or protect them.
![image](surveillance1.png)

Consider who might consider you a surveillance target, and why.  

## Who?

*   Local authorities (police, intelligence, military);
*   International intelligence agencies;
*	Embassy officials from other countries;
*   Criminals;
*   Terrorists;
*   Private contractors;
*   Disgruntled individuals. 

## Why?

*	To learn what you are doing;
*	While planning a serious incident, such as theft, arrest, kidnap, intimidation, or attack.

(Learn more about [kidnapping](umbrella://lesson/kidnapping/0) and [arrest](umbrella://lesson/arrests).)

## How? 

### Technical surveillance

Bugs, listening devices, video cameras, or number plate readers.

(Learn more about this in [meetings](umbrella://lesson/meetings).)

### Digital surveillance 

Monitoring of digital communications and devices.

(Learn about [malware](umbrella://lesson/malware/0), [phishing] (umbrella://lesson/phishing), and [mobile phones](umbrella://lesson/mobile-phones).)

### Human surveillance

Physical monitoring of a fixed location, someone on foot, or someone in a vehicle.

This lesson addresses human surveillance.

Counter-suveillance beginner involves fixed locations, like your office. 

[Counter-suveillance advanced](umbrella://lesson/counter_surveillance/1) involves surveillance on foot.

[Counter-suveillance expert](umbrella://lesson/counter_surveillance/2) involves surveillance in a vehicle.
