[Title]: # (Случайное удаление файлов)
[Order]: # (5)

When you delete a file in on your computer, it usually disappears from view, but its contents actually remain. Even after you empty the Recycle Bin, information from the files you deleted can usually still be found on the hard drive. See the [Deleting lesson](umbrella://lesson/safely-deleting) to learn more about this. Occasionally, if you accidentally delete an important file or folder, this security vulnerability can work to your advantage. There are several programs that can restore access to recently-deleted files, including a tool called [Recuva - File Recovery](umbrella://lesson/recuva), which you can learn how to use in our tool guide.

It is important that you do as little as possible with your computer between deleting a file and attempting to restore it. The longer you use your computer before attempting to restore the file, the less likely it is that you will succeed. This also means that you should use the portable version of Recuva instead of installing it after deleting an important file. (Or better - install it before anything happens!)

While it might sound like a lot of work to implement the policies and learn the tools described in this chapter, maintaining your backup strategy, once you have a system in place, is much easier than setting it up for the first time. And, given that backup may be the single most important aspect of data security, you can rest assured that going through this process is well worth the effort.