Title:What can you do to spot them?
Difficulty:Advanced
Order:2
---
<h1>What can you do to spot them?</h1><p>The most important thing to remember when conducting counter-surveillance is that you need to be discreet ? you do not want any potential surveillance teams to know that you are looking for them. This would raise suspicions further about what you intended to do. <b>The primary aim is to ascertain whether or not you are being followed, not to lose them. </b></p><p>Remember, if you discover you are in fact under surveillance, you have three options:<ul><li><b>Change your plans:</b>This is the safest and recommended option ? it will allow you to keep your original plans to yourself and reassure whoever had you under surveillance that you aren?t up to anything suspicious or worthy of surveillance.</li><li><b>Lose the surveillance covertly:</b>This is losing the surveillance team without them knowing you were aware of them by making it look accidental. This should be used if you absolutely must keep your plans and you feel it is safe to do so.</li><li><b>Lose the surveillance overtly:</b>This trying to identify or lose the surveillance team in a way that makes them aware of what you are trying to do. This is a risky tactic because it confirms to the team that you are indenting to do something that you don?t want them to see and so are increases the likelihood of you being under continued surveillance. You should only conduct your counter-surveillance overtly if absolutely vital and it is not possible to do so covertly.</li></ul></p>