Title:What do they look like?
Difficulty:Expert
Order:17
---
<h1>For advice on how to practice counter-surveillance when on foot, go to the Advanced lesson.</h1><p>There are a number of indicators that might let you know if a vehicle is being used to conduct mobile surveillance.</p><p>Look out for:<ul><li>Common vehicles for the area ? a team will try to use the most inconspicuous vehicle for the local environment</li><li>Unusual aerials</li><li>Modified boxes on top</li><li>Equipment in the car ? Maps, radios, GPS, binoculars, cameras etc.</li><li>Rubbish in a car</li><li>Parking for quick exit</li><li>Windows left slightly open</li><li>?Boot fit?</li><li>One or at most two people in a vehicle</li><li>Radio operator talking into a radio</li><li>Two people in a stopped car talking but not apparently to each other</li><li>Leaving an engine on unnecessarily</li><li>Brake lights being activated when a vehicle is stationary</li><li>Don?t forget taxis, rickshaws or expensive looking cars.</li></ul></p><p><b>Identifying Teams</b><br><br>If you identify one potential surveillance member, you can use that knowledge to identify others. Members of a surveillance team can cross-contaminate other members:<ul><li>By looking in their direction</li><li>By using hand signals</li><li>By parking their car or stopping in the same place (e.g. they have relieved each other)</li><li>By poor discipline/drills/boredom and pulling their cars up alongside each other in order to have an unnecessary conversation.</li></ul></p>