Title:Standard Operating Procedures
Difficulty:Beginner
Order:3
---
<p><ul><li>Discuss Standard Operating Procedures prior to departure</li>Pre-agree an itinerary and communication schedule agreed with relevant colleague.</li><li>You should carry your ?constant companion? on your person at all times. A constant companion includes some cash, your key documentation needed for evacuation, and a list of emergency names, addresses, phone numbers, and the names of reputable hotels along the route.</li><li>Only minimal data should be brought with you ? it should be backed up and, if appropriate, encrypted.</li><li>If carrying sensitive information decide how to discreetly carry it in to the country. What?s your story? Prepare to answer questions at airports and elsewhere. (For advice on both of these, see the Borders lesson)</li><li>If any sensitive meetings are to be held, or meetings with vulnerable human rights defenders, follow the advice laid out in the Meeting lesson.</li><li>Have an alternative plan to exit the country. Do you have a ?stand-by? visa for a neighbouring country?</li><li>If driving or being driven in a vehicle, follow the advice laid out in the Vehicles lesson.</li><li>You should understand tools, systems and techniques for good personal security management, counter-surveillance, safe use of email etc. (training might be necessary) This may include making yourself familiar with the advice in the Arrest and Kidnapping lessons.</li><li>Inform authorities and embassies of the trip,</li><li>Will a curfew be respected? Will solo movement be allowed?</li></ul></p>