contents_en/communications/social-media/beginner/check-the-site-s-privacy-policy.md, before:

[Title]: # (Check the Site's Privacy Policy)
[Order]: # (2)

# Check the Site's Privacy Policy

Remember that information you post on most social media sites does not belong you - it is subject to the sites own policies and they can use it or share it with others. We know that reading privacy policies is a near-impossible task, but you may want to take a look at sections on how your data is used, when it is shared with other parties, and how the service responds to law enforcement requests.
![image](socialb2.png)

Social networking sites often collect sensitive information beyond what you actually post-where you are, what interests and advertisements you react to, what other sites you've visited (e.g. through "Like" buttons). Be aware of what you like and repost if they may put you at risk. It can be helpful to block third-party cookies and use tracker-blocking browser extensions to make sure such information isn't being passively transmitted to third parties.

Some social networking sites, like Facebook and Twitter, have business relationships with data brokers in order to target advertisements more effectively. You can see guides that walk you through how to opt-out of these tracking schemes here:  
- [How to opt-out of Facebook's data broker relationships](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2013/02/howto-opt-out-databrokers-showing-your-targeted-advertisements-facebook)  
- [How to opt-out of Twitter's data broker relationships](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2013/07/how-opt-out-twitters-tailored-advertisements-and-more)

Commit message:

Add Cambridge Analytica under check-the-site-s-privacy-policy

contents_en/communications/social-media/beginner/check-the-site-s-privacy-policy.md, after:

[Title]: # (Check the Site's Privacy Policy)
[Order]: # (2)

# Check the Site's Privacy Policy

Remember that information you post on most social media sites does not belong you - it is subject to the site's own policies, and they can use it or share it with others. We know that reading privacy policies is a near-impossible task, but it's worth at least taking a look at sections on how your data is used, when it is shared with other parties, and how the service responds to law enforcement requests.
![image](socialb2.png)

Social networking sites often collect sensitive information beyond what you actually post - where you are, what interests and advertisements you react to, what other sites you've visited (e.g. through "Like" buttons). Be aware of what you like and repost if they may put you at risk. It can be helpful to block third-party cookies and use tracker-blocking browser extensions to make sure such information isn't being passively transmitted to third parties.

But this still leaves you with limited control over the information in your social media account. On April 4, 2018, Facebook [said] (https://newsroom.fb.com/news/2018/04/restricting-data-access/) Facebook information of up to 87 million people may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, a UK company that promises businesses and politicians that it can use data to change audience behaviour. The information was collected by a third party app called This is Your Digital Life, and [included] (https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2018/apr/13/revealed-aleksandr-kogan-collected-facebook-users-direct-messages) at least some direct, private messages exchanged between Facebook users who had installed the app and unthinkingly given it permission to access their mailbox.
