contents_en/communications/social-media/beginner/don-t-rely-social-media-sites.md, before:

[Title]: # (Don't rely on social media sites)
[Order]: # (8)

# Messaging

Social networking sites often allow you to chat with contacts in real time, but most are highly insecure. Use a messenger with end-to-end encryption instead. 

(Learn more about your options for [sending a message](umbrella://lesson/sending-a-message).) 

Using an insecure chat app affiliated with a social media company could: 

1. Reveal who you are communicating with;
2. Reveal what you are communicating about;
3. Expose you to phishing attacks. 

Never: 

*	Chat with people you don't know. Even real accounts can be duplicated to trick you into chatting.  
*	Click on links to documents or pictures in direct messages. These may carry malware. 

(Learn more about [phishing] (umbrella://lesson/phishing).)

![image](socialb4.png)

# Storage

Social networking sites should never by the primary host for your content. 

*	The provider of the site may change or close down;
*	Adversaries may allege that your content violates a site's terms or guidelines in order to have it removed; 
*	Governments or internet service providers may block access to the site.

(Learn more about [backing up](umbrella://lesson/backing-up) your files.)

Commit message:

Add Facebook link in don-t-rely-social-media-sites.md

contents_en/communications/social-media/beginner/don-t-rely-social-media-sites.md, after:

[Title]: # (Don't rely on social media sites)
[Order]: # (8)

# Messaging

Social networking sites often allow you to chat with contacts in real time, but most are highly insecure. Use a messenger with end-to-end encryption instead. 

(Learn more about your options for [sending a message](umbrella://lesson/sending-a-message).) 

Using an insecure chat app affiliated with a social media company could: 

1. Reveal who you are communicating with;
2. Reveal what you are communicating about;
3. Expose you to phishing attacks. 

Never: 

*	Chat with people you don't know. Even real accounts can be duplicated to trick you into chatting.  
*	Click on links to documents or pictures in direct messages. These may carry malware. 

(Learn more about [phishing] (umbrella://lesson/phishing).)

*If you really have to use Facebook Messenger, turn on Secret Conversations in the Android or iOS app. (Learn how in [Facebook privacy](umbrella://lesson/facebook).)*  

![image](socialb4.png)

# Storage

Social networking sites should never by the primary host for your content. 

*	The provider of the site may change or close down;
*	Adversaries may allege that your content violates a site's terms or guidelines in order to have it removed; 
*	Governments or internet service providers may block access to the site.

(Learn more about [backing up](umbrella://lesson/backing-up) your files.)
